
Transcriber's Note

Obvious typographical errors have been corrected. A list of corrections
is found at the end of the text. Inconsistencies in spelling and
hyphenation have been maintained. A list of inconsistently spelled
and hyphenated words is found at the end of the text.

Oe ligatures have been expanded.




  THE
  LADY'S
  OWN COOKERY BOOK,

  AND NEW

  DINNER-TABLE DIRECTORY;

  IN WHICH WILL BE FOUND
  A LARGE COLLECTION OF
  ORIGINAL RECEIPTS,

  INCLUDING NOT ONLY

  THE RESULT OF THE AUTHORESS'S MANY YEARS OBSERVATION,
  EXPERIENCE, AND RESEARCH,

  BUT ALSO THE
  CONTRIBUTIONS
  OF AN EXTENSIVE CIRCLE OF ACQUAINTANCE:

  ADAPTED TO THE USE OF
  PERSONS LIVING IN THE HIGHEST STYLE,

  AS WELL AS THOSE OF
  MODERATE FORTUNE.

  Third Edition.

  LONDON:
  PUBLISHED FOR HENRY COLBURN.
  1844.




PREFACE.


The Receipts composing the Volume here submitted to the Public have been
collected under peculiarly favourable circumstances by a Lady of
distinction, whose productions in the lighter department of literature
entitle her to a place among the most successful writers of the present
day. Moving in the first circles of rank and fashion, her associations
have qualified her to furnish directions adapted to the manners and
taste of the most refined Luxury; whilst long and attentive observation,
and the communications of an extensive acquaintance, have enabled her
equally to accommodate them to the use of persons of less ample means
and of simpler and more economical habits.

When the task of arranging the mass of materials thus accumulated
devolved upon the Editor, it became his study to give to them such a
form as should be most convenient for constant reference. A glance at
the "Contents," which might with equal propriety be denominated an
Index, will, he flatters himself, convince the reader that this object
has been accomplished. It will there be seen that the Receipts, upwards
of SIXTEEN HUNDRED in number, are classed under Eleven distinct Heads,
each of which is arranged in alphabetical order--a method which confers
on this Volume a decided advantage over every other work of the kind,
inasmuch as it affords all the facilities of a Dictionary, without being
liable to the unpleasant intermixture of heterogeneous matters which
cannot be avoided in that form of arrangement.

The intimate connexion between the Science of Cookery and the Science of
Health, the sympathies subsisting between every part of the system and
the stomach, and the absolute necessity of strict attention not less to
the manner of preparing the alimentary substances offered to that organ
than to their quality and quantity, have been of late years so
repeatedly and so forcibly urged by professional pens, that there needs
no argument here to prove the utility of a safe Guide and Director in so
important a department of domestic economy as that which is the subject
of this Volume. In many more cases, indeed, than the uninitiated would
imagine, is the healthy tone of the stomach dependent on the proper
preparation of the food, the healthy tone of the body in general on that
of the stomach, and the healthy tone of the mind on that of the body:
consequently the first of these conditions ought to command the
vigilance and solicitude of all who are desirous of securing the true
enjoyment of life--the _mens sana in corpore sano_.

The professed Cook may perhaps be disposed to form a mean estimate of
these pages, because few, or no learned, or technical, terms are
employed in them; but this circumstance, so far from operating to the
disparagement of the work, must prove a strong recommendation to the
Public in general. The chief aim, in fact, of the noble Authoress has
been to furnish such plain directions, in every branch of the culinary
art, as shall be really useful to English masters and English servants,
and to the humble but earnest practitioner. Let those who may desire to
put this collection of receipts to the test only give them a fair trial,
neither trusting to conceited servants, who, despising all other
methods, obstinately adhere to their own, and then lay the blame of
failure upon the directions; nor committing their execution to careless
ones, who neglect the means prescribed for success, either in regard to
time, quantities, or cleanliness; and the result will not fail to afford
satisfactory evidence of their pleasant qualities and practical
utility.




CONTENTS.


        PAGE
  GENERAL DIRECTIONS                                                   3

  CATALOGUE OF THINGS IN SEASON--Fish--Game and
    Poultry--Fruit--Roots and Vegetables                               5
  GENERAL RULES FOR A GOOD DINNER                                     13
  Dinner for Fourteen or Sixteen                                      14
  ---- ---- Twelve or Fourteen                                        19
  ---- ---- Ten or Twelve                                             23
  ---- ---- Eight                                                     26
  ---- ---- Six                                                       29
  ---- ---- Four                                                      32


  SOUPS.

  Almond                                                              33
  Asparagus                                                          ib.
  Calf's-head                                                         34
  Carrot                                                             ib.
  Clear                                                              ib.
  ---- herb                                                           35
  Cod's-head                                                         ib.
  Crawfish                                                           ib.
  ----, or lobster                                                   ib.
  Curry, or Mulligatawny                                              36
  Eel                                                                ib.
  Fish                                                               ib.
  French                                                             ib.
  Friar's chicken                                                     37
  Giblet                                                             ib.
  Gravy                                                               38
  Hare                                                               ib.
  Hessian                                                             39
  Mock-turtle                                                        ib.
  Mulligatawny                                                        41
  Onion                                                               42
  Ox-head                                                             43
  Green pea                                                          ib.
  Winter pea                                                          44
  Pea                                                                 45
  Portable                                                            46
  Potato                                                             ib.
  Rabbit                                                             ib.
  Root                                                               ib.
  Scotch leek                                                         47
  Soup, to brown or colour                                           ib.
  Soups and brown sauces, seasoning for                              ib.
  Soups                                                              ib.
  ---- without meat                                                   48
  ---- for the poor                                                   49
  ---- and bouilli                                                   ib.
  Soupe à-la-reine                                                   ib.
  ---- maigre                                                         50
  ---- Santé                                                          51
  Spanish                                                            ib.
  Turnip                                                              52
  Veal                                                               ib.
  Vegetable                                                          ib.
  Vermicelli                                                          53
  West India, or pepper-pot                                          ib.
  White                                                               54


  BROTHS.

  Broth for the poor                                                  57
  ---- ---- ---- sick                                                ib.
  Barley                                                              58
  Chervil                                                            ib.
  Hodge-podge                                                        ib.
  Leek porridge                                                      ib.
  Madame de Maillet's                                                ib.
  Mutton                                                              59
  Pork                                                               ib.
  Pottage                                                            ib.
  Scotch pottage                                                     ib.
  Scotch                                                              60
  Turnip                                                             ib.
  Veal                                                               ib.


  FISH.

  Carp and tench                                                      63
  ----, to stew                                                      ib.
  Cod, to stew                                                        64
  ----, ragout of                                                    ib.
  ----, head, to boil                                                ib.
  Crab, to dress                                                      64
  ---- or lobster, to butter                                         ib.
  ---- ---- ----, to stew                                             65
  Crawfish, to make red                                              ib.
  Eels, to broil whole                                               ib.
  ----, to collar                                                     65
  ----, to fry                                                        66
  ----, to pot                                                       ib.
  ----, to pickle                                                    ib.
  ----, to roast                                                     ib.
  ----, to spitchcock                                                ib.
  ----, to stew                                                       67
  Fish, to recover when tainted                                      ib.
  ----, in general, to dress                                          68
  ----, to dress in sauce                                            ib.
  ----, hashed in paste                                              ib.
  ----, to cavietch                                                  ib.
  Gudgeon                                                            ib.
  Haddock, to bake                                                   ib.
  ---- pudding                                                        69
  Herring                                                            ib.
  Lampreys to pot                                                    ib.
  Lobsters, to butter                                                 70
  ----, to fricassee                                                 ib.
  ----, to hash                                                      ib.
  ----, to pot                                                        71
  ----, to stew                                                      ib.
  ---- curry powder                                                  ib.
  ---- patés                                                         ib.
  ---- salad                                                          72
  Mackarel à la maitre d'hotel                                       ib.
  ----, to boil                                                      ib.
  ----, to broil                                                     ib.
  ----, to collar                                                    ib.
  ----, to fry                                                       ib.
  ----, to pickle                                                    ib.
  ----, to pot                                                       ib.
  ----, to souse                                                      73
  ---- pie                                                           ib.
  Mullet, to boil                                                    ib.
  ----, to broil                                                     ib.
  ----, to fry                                                       ib.
  Oysters, to stew                                                   ib.
  ----, ragout                                                        74
  ----, to pickle                                                    ib.
  ---- patés                                                         ib.
  Oyster loaves                                                       75
  ---- pie                                                           ib.
  Perch, to fricassee                                                 76
  Pike, to dress                                                     ib.
  ----, stuffed, to boil                                             ib.
  ----, to boil à-la-Française                                       ib.
  ----, to broil                                                     ib.
  ----, in Court Bouillon                                             77
  ----, fricandeau                                                   ib.
  ----, German way of dressing                                       ib.
  ----, to pot                                                       ib.
  ----, to roast                                                      78
  ----, au souvenir                                                  ib.
  ----, à la Tatare                                                  ib.
  Salmon, to dress                                                   ib.
  ----, en caisses                                                   ib.
  ----, à la poële                                                    79
  Scallops                                                           ib.
  Shrimps, to pot                                                    ib.
  Smelts, to fry                                                     ib.
  ----, to pickle                                                    ib.
  ----, to pot                                                        80
  Soles, to boil                                                     ib.
  ----, to boil à-la-Française                                       ib.
  ----, to stew                                                      ib.
  Water Souchi                                                       ib.
  Sprats, to bake                                                     81
  Sturgeon, to roast                                                 ib.
  Turbot, to dress                                                   ib.
  ----, plain boiled                                                  82
  ----, to boil                                                      ib.
  ----, to boil in gravy                                             ib.
  ----, to boil in Court Bouillon with capers                        ib.
  ----, to fry                                                        83
  ---- or barbel, glazed                                             ib.
  ----, en gras                                                      ib.
  ----, or barbel, en maigre                                         ib.
  Turtle, to dress                                                    84
  Whiting, to dry                                                    ib.


  MADE DISHES.

  Asparagus forced in French rolls                                    85
  Eggs, to dress                                                     ib.
  ----, buttered                                                     ib.
  ----, Scotch                                                        86
  ----, for second course                                            ib.
  ----, to fry as round as balls                                     ib.
  ----, fricassee of                                                 ib.
  ----, à la crême                                                   ib.
  Ham, essence of                                                     87
  Maccaroni in a mould of pie-crust                                  ib.
  ----                                                               ib.
  Omelets                                                             89
  ----, asparagus                                                     90
  ----, French                                                       ib.
  Ragout for made dishes                                             ib.
  Trouhindella                                                       ib.


  MEATS AND VEGETABLES.

  Artichokes, to fricassee                                            91
  Bacon, to cure                                                     ib.
  Barbicue                                                           ib.
  Beef, alamode                                                       92
  ---- ---- in the French manner                                     ib.
  ----, rump, with onions                                             93
  ----, rump, to bake                                                ib.
  ----, rump, cardinal fashion                                       ib.
  ----, sausage fashion                                               94
  ----, ribs and sirloin                                             ib.
  ----, ribs, en papillotes                                          ib.
  ----, brisket, stewed German fashion                                95
  ----, to bake                                                      ib.
  ----, bouilli                                                      ib.
  ----, relishing                                                     96
  ----, to stew                                                      ib.
  ----, cold, to dress                                                97
  ----, cold boiled, to dress                                        ib.
  ----, cold, to pot                                                 ib.
  ---- steaks, to broil                                              ib.
  ---- ---- and oysters                                               98
  ---- (rump steaks) broiled, with onion gravy                       ib.
  ---- steaks, to stew                                                98
  ---- olives                                                         99
  ----, pickle for                                                   ib.
  ----, to salt                                                      ib.
  ----, to dry                                                       100
  ----, hung                                                         ib.
  ----, for scraping                                                 101
  ----, Italian                                                      ib.
  ----, red                                                          ib.
  ----, collar of                                                    102
  Bisquet, to make                                                   ib.
  Boar's-head, to dress whole                                        103
  Brawn, to keep                                                     ib.
  Hog's-head, like brawn                                             ib.
  Mock-brawn                                                         ib.
  Cabbage, farced                                                    104
  Calf's-head                                                        ib.
  ----, like turtle                                                  ib.
  ----, to hash                                                      105
  ----, fricassee                                                    106
  ----, to pickle                                                    ib.
  ---- liver                                                         107
  Cauliflowers with white sauce                                      ib.
  Celery, to stew                                                    ib.
  ---- à-la-crême                                                    ib.
  Collops, Scotch                                                    ib.
  ----, brown Scotch                                                 108
  ----, white                                                        ib.
  ----, to mince                                                     109
  ---- of cold beef                                                  ib.
  Cucumbers, to stew                                                 ib.
  Curry-powder                                                       ib.
  ----, Indian                                                       110
  Farcie                                                             112
  Forcemeat                                                          ib.
  Fricandeau                                                         113
  Ham, to cure                                                       ib.
  ----, Westphalia, to cure                                          117
  ----, English, to make like Westphalia                             119
  ----, green                                                        120
  ----, to prepare for dressing without soaking                      ib.
  ----, to dress                                                     ib.
  ----, to roast                                                     121
  ----, entrée of                                                    ib.
  ----, toasts                                                       ib.
  ---- and chicken, to pot                                           ib.
  Herb sandwiches                                                    122
  Hog's puddings, black                                              ib.
  ---- ----, white                                                   ib.
  Kabob, an Indian ragout                                            123
  Lamb, leg, to boil                                                 124
  ---- ----, with forcemeat                                          ib.
  ----, shoulder of, grilled                                         ib.
  ----, to ragout                                                    ib.
  ----, to fricassee                                                 ib.
  Meat, miscellaneous directions respecting                          125
  ----, general rules for roasting and boiling                       ib.
  ----, half roasted or under done                                   ib.
  Mustard to make                                                    126
  Mutton, chine, to roast                                            ib.
  ---- chops, to stew                                                ib.
  ---- cutlets                                                       ib.
  ---- ----, with onion sauce                                        ib.
  ---- hams, to make                                                 127
  ----, haricot                                                      127
  ----, leg                                                          ib.
  ----, leg, in the French fashion                                   ib.
  ----, or beef, leg, to hash                                        128
  ----, loin, to stew                                                ib.
  ----, neck, to roast                                               ib.
  ----, neck, to boil                                                ib.
  ----, neck, to fry                                                 129
  ----, saddle, and kidneys                                          ib.
  ----, shoulder, to roast in blood                                  ib.
  ----, shoulder or leg, with oysters                                ib.
  ----, roasted, with stewed cucumbers                               ib.
  ----, to eat like venison                                          130
  ----, in epigram                                                   ib.
  Mushrooms to stew brown                                            ib.
  Newmarket John                                                     ib.
  Ox-cheek to stew                                                   ib.
  Ox-tail ragout                                                     131
  Peas to stew                                                       ib.
  ----, green, to keep till Christmas                                132
  Pickle, red, for any meat                                          ib.
  Pie, beef-steak                                                    ib.
  ----, calf's-head                                                  ib.
  ----, mutton or grass-lamb                                         ib.
  ----, veal                                                         133
  ----, veal and ham                                                 ib.
  ----, veal olive                                                   ib.
  ----, beef olive                                                   ib.
  Pig, to barbicue                                                   ib.
  ----, to collar                                                    ib.
  ----, to collar in colours                                         134
  ----, to pickle or souse                                           ib.
  ----, to roast                                                     ib.
  ----, to dress lamb-fashion                                        ib.
  Pigs'-feet and ears, fricassee of                                  135
  ---- ---- ---- ----, ragout of                                     ib.
  Pig's-head, to roll                                                ib.
  Pilaw, an Indian dish                                              ib.
  Pork, to collar                                                    136
  ----, to pickle                                                    ib.
  ----, chine, to stuff or roast                                     ib.
  ---- cutlets                                                       137
  ----, gammon, to roast                                             ib.
  ----, leg, to broil                                                ib.
  ----, spring, to roast                                             ib.
  Potatoes, to boil                                                  ib.
  ----, to bake                                                      138
  Potato balls                                                       ib.
  Potatoes, croquets of                                              ib.
  ----, to fry                                                       ib.
  ----, to mash                                                      139
  ----, French way of cooking                                        ib.
  ----, à-la-maitre d'hotel                                          ib.
  Rice to boil                                                       ib.
  Rissoles                                                           ib.
  Rice                                                               140
  Robinson, to make a                                                141
  Salad, to dress                                                    ib.
  Sausages, Bologna                                                  ib.
  ----, English                                                      ib.
  ----, Oxford                                                       142
  ----, for Scotch collops                                           ib.
  ----, veal                                                         ib.
  ----, without skins                                                143
  Spinach, the best mode of dressing                                 ib.
  ----, to stew                                                      ib.
  Sweetbreads, ragout of                                             144
  Savoury toasts, to relish wine                                     144
  Tomato, to eat with roast meat                                     145
  Tongues, to cure                                                   ib.
  ----, to smoke                                                     146
  ----, to bake                                                      ib.
  ----, to boil                                                      ib.
  ----, to pot                                                       ib.
  ---- and udder to roast                                            147
  ----, sheep's, or any other, with oysters                          ib.
  Tripe, to dress                                                    ib.
  ----, to fricassee                                                 ib.
  Truffles and morels, to stew                                       ib.
  Veal, to boil                                                      148
  ----, to collar                                                    ib.
  ----, to roast                                                     ib.
  ----, roasted, ragout of                                           ib.
  ----, to stew                                                      149
  ----, with rice, to stew                                           ib.
  ----, served in paper                                              ib.
  ----, bombarded                                                    ib.
  ---- balls                                                         150
  ----, breast                                                       ib.
  ----, breast, with cabbage and bacon                               ib.
  ----, breast, en fricandeau                                        ib.
  ----, breast, glazed brown                                         ib.
  ----, breast, stewed with peas                                     151
  ----, breast, ragout                                               ib.
  ---- collops, with oysters                                         151
  ---- collops, with white sauce                                     152
  ---- cutlets, to dress                                             ib.
  ---- cutlets, larded                                               ib.
  ----, fillet, to farce or roast                                    ib.
  ----, fillet, to boil                                              153
  ----, half a fillet, to stew                                       ib.
  ----, knuckle, white                                               ib.
  ----, knuckle, ragout                                              ib.
  ----, leg, and bacon, to boil                                      154
  ----, loin, to roast                                               ib.
  ----, loin, to roast with herbs                                    ib.
  ----, loin, fricassee of                                           ib.
  ----, loin, bechamel                                               155
  ----, neck, stewed with celery                                     ib.
  ---- olives                                                        ib.
  ---- rumps                                                         156
  ----, shoulder, to stew                                            ib.
  ---- steaks                                                        ib.
  ---- sweetbreads, to fry                                           ib.
  ---- sweetbreads, to roast                                         157
  Vegetables, to stew                                                ib.
  Venison, haunch, to roast                                          ib.
  ----, to boil                                                      ib.
  ----, haunch, to broil                                             158
  ----, to recover when tainted                                      ib.
  ----, red deer, to pot                                             ib.
  ----, excellent substitute for                                     ib.
  Water-cresses, to stew                                             159


  POULTRY.

  Chicken, to make white                                             161
  ----, to fricassee                                                 ib.
  ----, white fricassee of                                           162
  ----, or fowl, cream of                                            163
  ----, to fry                                                       ib.
  ----, to heat                                                      ib.
  ----, dressed with peas                                            ib.
  ---- and ham, ragout of                                            ib.
  ----, or ham and veal patés                                        164
  Duck, to boil                                                      ib.
  ----, to boil à-la-Française                                       ib.
  ----, à-la-braise                                                  ib.
  ----, to hash                                                      165
  ----, to stew with cucumbers                                       ib.
  ----, to stew with peas                                            ib.
  Fowls, to fatten in a fortnight                                    ib.
  ----, to make tender                                               ib.
  ----, to roast with anchovies                                      ib.
  ----, with rice, called pilaw                                      ib.
  ----, to hash                                                      166
  ----, to stew                                                      ib.
  Goose, to stuff                                                    ib.
  ----, liver of, to dress                                           ib.
  Pigeons, to boil                                                   ib.
  ----, to broil                                                     167
  Pigeons, to jug                                                    167
  ----, to pot                                                       ib.
  ----, to stew                                                      ib.
  ----, biscuit of                                                   168
  ----, en compote                                                   ib.
  ----, à la crapaudine                                              169
  ----, in disguise                                                  ib.
  ----, in fricandeau                                                ib.
  ----, aux poires                                                   170
  ----, pompeton of                                                  ib.
  ----, au soleil                                                    ib.
  ----, à la Tatare, with cold sauce                                 171
  ----, surtout of                                                   ib.
  Poultry, tainted, to preserve                                      ib.
  Pullets, with oysters                                              ib.
  ----, to bone and farce                                            172
  Rabbits, to boil                                                   ib.
  ----, to boil with onions                                          ib.
  ----, brown fricassee of                                           ib.
  ----, white fricassee of                                           ib.
  Turkey, to boil                                                    173
  ---- with oysters                                                  ib.
  ---- à la daube                                                    ib.
  ----, roasted, delicate gravy for                                  174
  ---- or veal stuffing                                              ib.


  GAME.

  Hare, to dress                                                     175
  ----, to roast                                                     ib.
  ----, to hash                                                      176
  ----, to jug                                                       ib.
  ----, to mince                                                     177
  ----, to stew                                                      ib.
  ---- stuffing                                                      ib.
  Partridge, to boil                                                 177
  ----, to roast                                                     ib.
  ----, à la paysanne                                                ib.
  ----, à la Polonaise                                               ib.
  ----, à la russe                                                   178
  ----, rolled                                                       ib.
  ----, stewed                                                       ib.
  ----, salme of                                                     ib.
  ----, to pot                                                       179
  ---- pie                                                           ib.
  Pheasant, to boil                                                  ib.
  ----, with white sauce                                             180
  ----, à la braise                                                  ib.
  ----, à l'Italienne                                                ib.
  Pheasant, puré of                                                  181
  Widgeon, to dress                                                  ib.
  Wild-duck, to roast                                                ib.
  Woodcocks and snipes, to roast                                     ib.
  ----, à la Française                                               ib.
  ----, to pot                                                       ib.


  SAUCES.

  Anchovy, essence of                                                183
  ---- pickle                                                        ib.
  ---- sauce                                                         ib.
  ----, to recover                                                   ib.
  Bacchanalian sauce                                                 184
  Bechamel                                                           ib.
  Beef bouilli, sauce for                                            ib.
  ---- à la russe, sauce for                                         185
  Bread sauce                                                        ib.
  ---- ---- for pig                                                  ib.
  Browning for made dishes                                           ib.
  Butter, to burn                                                    186
  ----, to clarify                                                   ib.
  ----, plain melted                                                 ib.
  ----, to thicken for peas                                          ib.
  Caper sauce                                                        187
  Carp sauce                                                         ib.
  ----, light brown sauce for                                        ib.
  ---- and tench, sauce for                                          ib.
  ----, white sauce for                                              ib.
  ----, or tench, Dutch sauce for                                    188
  ---- sauce for fish                                                ib.
  Cavechi, an Indian pickle                                          ib.
  Celery sauce, white                                                189
  ---- ----, brown                                                   ib.
  Chickens, boiled, sauce for                                        ib.
  ---- or game, sauce for                                            ib.
  ----, white sauce for                                              ib.
  Consommé                                                           ib.
  Cream sauce for white dishes                                       190
  Cullis, to thicken sauces                                          ib.
  ----, brown                                                        ib.
  ----, à la reine                                                   ib.
  ----, turkey                                                       191
  ---- of veal, or other meat                                        ib.
  Dandy sauce, for all sorts of poultry and game                     ib.
  Devonshire sauce                                                   192
  Ducks, sauce for                                                   ib.
  Dutch sauce                                                        ib.
  ---- sauce for fish                                                ib.
  ---- sauce for meat or fish                                        ib.
  ---- sauce for trout                                               193
  Egg sauce                                                          ib.
  Exquisite, the                                                     ib.
  Fish sauce                                                         ib.
  ---- sauce, excellent white                                        196
  ----, white sauce for, with capers and anchovies                   ib.
  ----, stock                                                        ib.
  Forcemeat balls for sauces                                         ib.
  Fowls, white sauce for                                             197
  ---- of all kinds, or roasted mutton, sauce for                    ib.
  General sauce                                                      198
  Genoese sauce, for stewed fish                                     ib.
  German sauce                                                       198
  Gravy, beef                                                        ib.
  ---- beef, to keep                                                 199
  ----, brown                                                        ib.
  Green sauce, for green geese or ducklings                          ib.
  Ham sauce                                                          200
  Hare or venison sauce                                              ib.
  Harvey's sauce                                                     ib.
  Hashes or fish, sauce for                                          ib.
  ----, white, or chickens, sauce for                                ib.
  Horseradish sauce                                                  ib.
  Italian sauce                                                      201
  Ketchup                                                            ib.
  Lemon sauce                                                        ib.
  Liver sauce for boiled fowls                                       ib.
  Lobster sauce                                                      ib.
  Marchioness's sauce                                                202
  Meat jelly for sauces                                              ib.
  Mixed sauce                                                        ib.
  Mushroom ketchup                                                   203
  ---- sauce                                                         204
  Mutton, roasted, sauce for                                         ib.
  Onion sauce                                                        ib.
  ---- ----, brown                                                   ib.
  Oyster sauce                                                       ib.
  Pepper-pot                                                         ib.
  Pike sauce                                                         205
  Piquante, sauce                                                    ib.
  Poivrade sauce                                                     206
  Poor man's sauce                                                   ib.
  Quin's fish sauce                                                  ib.
  Ragout sauce                                                       ib.
  Ravigotte, sauce                                                   ib.
  ---- ----, à la bourgeoise                                         ib.
  Relishing sauce                                                    207
  Remoulade, sauce                                                   ib.
  Rice sauce                                                         208
  Richmond sauce                                                     ib.
  Roast meat, sauce for                                              ib.
  Robert, sauce                                                      ib.
  Salad sauce                                                        ib.
  Shalot sauce                                                       209
  Spanish sauce                                                      ib.
  Steaks, sauce for                                                  ib.
  Sultana sauce                                                      ib.
  Tomato ketchup                                                     ib.
  ---- sauce                                                         210
  Turkey, savoury jelly for                                          ib.
  ---- or chicken sauce                                              211
  ---- or fowl, boiled, sauce for                                    ib.
  Venison sauce                                                      ib.
  ---- ----, sweet                                                   ib.
  Walnut ketchup                                                     ib.
  White sauce                                                        213
  ---- wine sweet sauce                                              ib.


  CONFECTIONARY.

  Almacks                                                            215
  Almond butter                                                      ib.
  ---- cheesecakes                                                   ib.
  ---- cream                                                         216
  ---- paste                                                         ib.
  ---- puffs                                                         217
  Angelica, to candy                                                 ib.
  Apples, to do                                                      ib.
  ----, (pippins) to candy                                           ib.
  ----, (pippins) to dry                                             ib.
  ----, to preserve green                                            218
  ----, (golden pippins) to preserve                                 ib.
  ----, (crabs) to preserve                                          ib.
  ----, (Siberian crabs) to preserve, transparent                    ib.
  ----, (golden pippins) to stew                                     ib.
  ----, cheese                                                       219
  ----, conserve of                                                  ib.
  ----, demandon                                                     ib.
  ----, fraise                                                       ib.
  ----, fritters                                                     220
  ----, jelly                                                        ib.
  ----, (crab) jam or jelly                                          221
  ----, (pippin or codling) jelly                                    ib.
  ---- and pears, to dry                                             ib.
  Apricots in brandy                                                 222
  ---- chips                                                         ib.
  ---- burnt cream                                                   ib.
  ----, to dry                                                       ib.
  ----, jam                                                          223
  ---- and plum jam                                                  ib.
  ---- paste                                                         ib.
  ----, to preserve                                                  ib.
  ----, to preserve whole                                            224
  ----, to preserve in jelly                                         ib.
  Bances, French                                                     ib.
  Barberries, to preserve                                            225
  Biscuits                                                           ib.
  ----, Dutch                                                        ib.
  ----, ginger                                                       226
  ----, lemon                                                        ib.
  ----, ratafia                                                      ib.
  ----, table                                                        ib.
  Blancmange                                                         ib.
  ----, Dutch                                                        227
  Bread                                                              ib.
  ----, diet                                                         ib.
  ----, potato                                                       228
  ----, rice                                                         ib.
  ----, rye                                                          ib.
  ----, Scotch, short                                                ib.
  Loaves, buttered                                                   ib.
  Loaf, egg                                                          229
  Buns                                                               ib.
  ----, Bath                                                         230
  ----, plain                                                        ib.
  Butter, to make without churning                                   ib.
  ----, black                                                        ib.
  ----, Spanish                                                      231
  Cake                                                               ib.
  ----, excellent                                                    ib.
  ----, great                                                        ib.
  ----, light                                                        ib.
  ----, nice                                                         ib.
  ----, plain                                                        232
  ----, very rich                                                    232
  ----, without butter                                               ib.
  ----, almond                                                       ib.
  ----, almond, clear                                                233
  ----, apple                                                        234
  ----, apricot clear                                                ib.
  ----, biscuit                                                      ib.
  ----, bread                                                        ib.
  ----, breakfast                                                    235
  ----, breakfast, excellent                                         ib.
  ----, breakfast, Bath                                              ib.
  ----, butter                                                       ib.
  ----, caraway                                                      236
  ----, caraway, small                                               237
  ----, cocoa-nut                                                    ib.
  ----, currant, clear                                               ib.
  ----, egg                                                          ib.
  ----, enamelled                                                    ib.
  ----, Epsom                                                        ib.
  ----, ginger                                                       238
  ----, ginger, or hunting                                           ib.
  ----, gooseberry, clear                                            ib.
  ----, Jersey                                                       ib.
  ----, Jersey merveilles                                            ib.
  ----, London wigs                                                  239
  ----, onion                                                        ib.
  ----, orange                                                       ib.
  ----, orange clove                                                 ib.
  ----, orange-flower                                                240
  ----, plum                                                         ib.
  ----, plum, clear                                                  ib.
  ----, Portugal                                                     ib.
  ----, potato                                                       ib.
  ----, pound                                                        ib.
  ----, pound davy                                                   242
  ----, quince, clear                                                ib.
  ----, ratafia                                                      ib.
  ----, rice                                                         ib.
  ----, rock                                                         243
  ----, royal                                                        ib.
  ----, Savoy or sponge                                              ib.
  ----, seed                                                         ib.
  ----, Shrewsbury                                                   244
  ----, sponge                                                       245
  ----, sugar                                                        ib.
  ----, sugar, little                                                ib.
  ----, sweet                                                        ib.
  ----, tea                                                          ib.
  ----, tea, dry                                                     246
  ----, thousand                                                     ib.
  ----, Tunbridge                                                    ib.
  ----, veal                                                         ib.
  ----, Yorkshire                                                    247
  Calves'-foot jelly                                                 ib.
  Cheese, to make                                                    ib.
  ----, the best in the world                                        248
  ----, to stew                                                      249
  ----, cream                                                        ib.
  ----, cream, Princess Amelia's                                     ib.
  ----, cream, Irish                                                 ib.
  ----, rush                                                         250
  ----, winter cream                                                 ib.
  ----, cream, to make without cream                                 ib.
  ----, damson                                                       ib.
  ----, French                                                       251
  ----, Italian                                                      ib.
  ----, lemon                                                        ib.
  Cheesecakes                                                        ib.
  ----, almond                                                       253
  ----, cocoa-nut                                                    ib.
  ----, cream                                                        ib.
  ----, curd                                                         254
  ----, lemon                                                        ib.
  ----, orange                                                       ib.
  ----, Scotch                                                       ib.
  Cherries, to preserve                                              255
  ----, to preserve (Morella)                                        ib.
  ----, brandy                                                       256
  ----, to dry                                                       ib.
  ----, dried, liquor for                                            ib.
  Cherry jam                                                         257
  Cocoa jam                                                          ib.
  Cocoa-nut candy                                                    ib.
  Coffee, to roast                                                   ib.
  ----, to make the foreign way                                      ib.
  Cream, to make rise in cold weather                                258
  ----, to fry                                                       ib.
  ----, and curd, artificial                                         ib.
  ----, of rice                                                      259
  ----, almond                                                       ib.
  ----, barley                                                       ib.
  ----, French barley                                                ib.
  ----, chocolate                                                    260
  ----, citron                                                       ib.
  ----, clotted                                                      ib.
  ----, coffee                                                       ib.
  ----, eringo                                                       ib.
  ----, fruit                                                        261
  ----, preserved fruit                                              ib.
  ----, Italian                                                      ib.
  ----, lemon                                                        ib.
  ----, lemon, without cream                                         262
  ----, lemon, frothed                                               ib.
  ----, orange                                                       ib.
  ----, orange, frothed                                              263
  ----, Imperial, orange                                             ib.
  ----, pistachio                                                    ib.
  ----, raspberry                                                    ib.
  ----, ratafia                                                      ib.
  ----, rice                                                         ib.
  ----, runnet whey                                                  264
  ----, snow                                                         ib.
  ----, strawberry                                                   ib.
  ----, sweetmeat                                                    ib.
  ----, whipt                                                        ib.
  Cucumbers, to preserve green                                       ib.
  Curd, cream                                                        265
  ----, lemon                                                        ib.
  ----, Paris                                                        ib.
  Currants, to bottle                                                ib.
  ----, or barberries, to dry                                        266
  ----, to ice                                                       ib.
  ----, white, to preserve                                           ib.
  Currant jam                                                        267
  ----, jelly, black or red                                          ib.
  ----, juice                                                        ib.
  ----, paste                                                        268
  Custard                                                            ib.
  ----, almond                                                       269
  Damsons, to bottle                                                 ib.
  ----, to dry                                                       ib.
  ----, to preserve without sugar                                    269
  Dripping, to clarify for crust                                     ib.
  Dumplings                                                          ib.
  ----, currant                                                      270
  ----, drop                                                         ib.
  ----, kitchen hard                                                 ib.
  ----, yest                                                         ib.
  Eggs                                                               271
  ----, whites of                                                    ib.
  Figs, to dry                                                       ib.
  Flowers, small, to candy                                           ib.
  ----, in sprigs, to candy                                          272
  Flummery, Dutch                                                    ib.
  ----, hartshorn                                                    ib.
  Fondues                                                            273
  Fritters, Yorkshire                                                ib.
  Fruit, to preserve                                                 ib.
  ----, to preserve green                                            ib.
  ----, of all sorts, to scald                                       ib.
  Gingerbread                                                        274
  ----, thick                                                        275
  ----, cakes or nuts                                                ib.
  Gooseberries, to bottle                                            ib.
  ----, in jelly                                                     ib.
  ----, to preserve                                                  276
  ----, paste of                                                     277
  Grapes, to dry                                                     ib.
  ----, to preserve                                                  ib.
  Greengages, to preserve                                            ib.
  Hartshorn jelly                                                    278
  Hedgehog                                                           ib.
  Ice and cream                                                      ib.
  ----, lemon                                                        279
  Iceing for cakes                                                   ib.
  Jaunemange                                                         ib.
  Jelly, coloured                                                    ib.
  ----, Gloucester                                                   280
  ----, lemon                                                        ib.
  ----, nourishing                                                   ib.
  ----, orange                                                       ib.
  ----, restorative                                                  281
  ----, strawberry                                                   ib.
  ----, wine                                                         ib.
  Lemons or Seville oranges, to preserve                             282
  Lemon caudle                                                       ib.
  ---- or chocolate drops                                            ib.
  ---- puffs                                                         283
  ---- tart                                                          ib.
  ----, solid                                                        ib.
  ----, syrup of                                                     ib.
  Macaroons                                                          ib.
  Marmalade, citron                                                  ib.
  ----, cherry                                                       284
  ----, orange                                                       ib.
  ----, Scotch, orange                                               285
  ----, red quince                                                   ib.
  ----, white quince                                                 286
  Marchpane                                                          ib.
  Marrow pasties                                                     287
  Melons or cucumbers, to preserve                                   ib.
  Melon compote                                                      ib.
  Mince-meat                                                         ib.
  ---- without meat                                                  288
  ----, lemon                                                        289
  Mirangles                                                          ib.
  Moss                                                               ib.
  Muffins                                                            290
  Oranges, to preserve                                               ib.
  ----, Seville, to preserve                                         291
  Orange butter                                                      ib.
  ----, candied                                                      ib.
  ---- cream                                                         ib.
  ---- jelly                                                         292
  ---- paste                                                         ib.
  ---- puffs                                                         ib.
  ---- sponge                                                        293
  ---- and lemon syrup                                               ib.
  Oranges for a tart                                                 ib.
  Orange tart                                                        ib.
  Panada                                                             294
  Pancakes                                                           ib.
  ----, French                                                       295
  ----, Grillon's                                                    ib.
  ----, quire of paper                                               ib.
  ----, rice                                                         ib.
  Paste                                                              ib.
  ----, for baking or frying                                         ib.
  ----, for pies                                                     296
  ----, for raised pies                                              ib.
  ----, for tarts                                                    ib.
  ----, for tarts in pans                                            ib.
  ----, for small tartlets                                           ib.
  ----, potato                                                       ib.
  ----, rice                                                         297
  ----, royal                                                        ib.
  ----, short or puff                                                ib.
  ----, short                                                        ib.
  ----, short, with suet                                             298
  ----, sugar                                                        ib.
  Peaches, to preserve in brandy                                     ib.
  Pears, to pot                                                      299
  ----, to stew                                                      300
  Pie, chicken                                                       ib.
  ----, giblet                                                       ib.
  ----, common goose                                                 ib.
  ----, rich goose                                                   ib.
  ----, ham and chicken                                              ib.
  ----, hare                                                         301
  ----, lumber                                                       ib.
  ----, olive                                                        ib.
  ----, partridge                                                    ib.
  ----, rich pigeon                                                  302
  ----, high veal                                                    ib.
  ----, vegetable                                                    ib.
  ----, Yorkshire Christmas                                          ib.
  Pineapple, to preserve in slices                                   ib.
  ---- chips                                                         303
  Plums, to dry green                                                ib.
  ----, green, jam of                                                ib.
  ----, great white, to preserve                                     304
  Posset                                                             ib.
  ----, sack                                                         ib.
  ----, sack, without milk                                           ib.
  ----, sack, or jelly                                               305
  Puffs                                                              ib.
  ----, cheese                                                       ib.
  ----, chocolate                                                    ib.
  ----, German                                                       ib.
  ----, Spanish                                                      306
  Pudding                                                            ib.
  ----, good                                                         ib.
  ----, very good                                                    ib.
  ----, excellent                                                    307
  ----, plain                                                        ib.
  ----, scalded                                                      307
  ----, sweet                                                        ib.
  ----, all three                                                    ib.
  ----, almond                                                       ib.
  ----, amber                                                        308
  ----, Princess Amelia's                                            ib.
  ----, apple-mignon                                                 ib.
  ----, apple                                                        ib.
  ----, arrow-root                                                   309
  ----, pearl barley                                                 ib.
  ----, batter                                                       ib.
  ----, plain batter                                                 ib.
  ----, Norfolk batter                                               310
  ----, green bean                                                   ib.
  ----, beef-steak                                                   ib.
  ----, bread                                                        ib.
  ----, bread, rich                                                  311
  ----, bread and butter                                             ib.
  ----, raisin-bread                                                 ib.
  ----, buttermilk                                                   ib.
  ----, carrot                                                       ib.
  ----, Charlotte                                                    312
  ----, cheese                                                       ib.
  ----, citron                                                       ib.
  ----, cocoa-nut                                                    ib.
  ----, college                                                      313
  ----, new college                                                  ib.
  ----, cottage                                                      314
  ----, currant                                                      ib.
  ----, custard                                                      ib.
  ----, fish                                                         315
  ----, French                                                       ib.
  ----, gooseberry                                                   ib.
  ----, hunters'                                                     316
  ----, jug                                                          ib.
  ----, lemon                                                        ib.
  ----, small lemon                                                  ib.
  ----, maccaroni                                                    ib.
  ----, marrow                                                       ib.
  ----, Nottingham                                                   317
  ----, oatmeal                                                      ib.
  ----, orange                                                       ib.
  ----, paradise                                                     318
  ----, pith                                                         319
  ----, plum                                                         ib.
  ----, plum, rich                                                   320
  ----, potato                                                       ib.
  ----, Pottinger's                                                  321
  ----, prune                                                        ib.
  ----, quaking                                                      ib.
  ----, ratafia                                                      322
  ----, rice                                                         ib.
  ----, plain rice                                                   ib.
  ----, ground rice                                                  323
  ----, rice, hunting                                                ib.
  ----, kitchen rice                                                 ib.
  ----, rice plum                                                    ib.
  ----, small rice                                                   ib.
  ----, Swedish rice                                                 ib.
  ----, rice white pot                                               324
  ----, sago                                                         ib.
  ----, spoonful                                                     ib.
  ----, plain suet                                                   ib.
  ----, tansy                                                        ib.
  ----, tapioca                                                      325
  ----, neat's tongue                                                ib.
  Quatre fruits                                                      ib.
  Quinces, to preserve                                               ib.
  Ramaquins                                                          326
  Raspberries, to preserve                                           327
  ----, to preserve in currant jelly                                 ib.
  ----, jam                                                          328
  ----, paste                                                        ib.
  Rice crust, apple tart with                                        329
  Rolls                                                              ib.
  ----, excellent                                                    ib.
  ----, little                                                       330
  ----, breakfast                                                    ib.
  ----, Brentford                                                    ib.
  ----, Dutch                                                        ib.
  ----, French                                                       331
  ----, Milton                                                       332
  Runnet                                                             ib.
  Rusks                                                              ib.
  ----, and tops and bottoms                                         ib.
  Sally Lunn                                                         333
  Slipcote                                                           ib.
  Soufflé                                                            ib.
  ---- of apples and rice                                            ib.
  Strawberries, to preserve for eating with cream                    334
  Strawberries, to preserve in currant jelly                         334
  ----, to preserve in gooseberry jelly                              335
  ----, jam                                                          ib.
  Sugar, to clarify                                                  ib.
  Syllabub                                                           336
  ----, everlasting                                                  ib.
  ----, solid                                                        ib.
  ----, whipt                                                        ib.
  Taffy                                                              337
  Trifle                                                             ib.
  Trotter jelly                                                      ib.
  Veal and ham patés                                                 ib.
  Venison pasty                                                      338
  Vol-au-vent                                                        ib.
  Wafers                                                             ib.
  ----, sugar                                                        ib.
  Walnuts, to preserve                                               ib.
  ----, white                                                        ib.
  Whey, mustard                                                      ib.
  Yest                                                               ib.
  ----, excellent                                                    340
  ----, potato                                                       ib.


PICKLES.

  General Directions                                                 341
  Almonds, green                                                     ib.
  Artichokes                                                         ib.
  ----, to boil in winter                                            ib.
  Asparagus                                                          342
  Barberries                                                         ib.
  Beet-root                                                          ib.
  ---- and turnips                                                   343
  Cabbage                                                            ib.
  ----, red                                                          ib.
  Capers                                                             344
  Capsicum                                                           ib.
  Cauliflower                                                        ib.
  Clove gilliflower, or any other flower, for salads                 ib.
  Codlings                                                           ib.
  Cucumbers                                                          345
  ----, large, mango of                                              346
  ----, sliced                                                       ib.
  ----, stuffed                                                      ib.
  ----, to preserve                                                  347
  French beans                                                       348
  Herrings, to marinate                                              349
  ----, red, trout fashion                                           ib.
  India pickle, called Picolili                                      ib.
  Lemons                                                             350
  ----, or oranges                                                   352
  Mango cossundria                                                   353
  Melons                                                             ib.
  ----, to imitate mangoes                                           ib.
  ----, or cucumbers, as mangoes                                     ib.
  Mushrooms                                                          354
  ----, brown                                                        356
  ----, to dry                                                       ib.
  ----, liquor and powder                                            ib.
  Mustard pickle                                                     ib.
  Nasturtiums                                                        357
  Onions                                                             ib.
  ----, Spanish, mango of                                            358
  Orange and lemon-peel                                              ib.
  Oysters                                                            ib.
  Peaches, mango of                                                  359
  Purslain, samphire, broom-buds, &c.                                360
  Quinces                                                            ib.
  Radish pods                                                        ib.
  Salmon                                                             361
  ----, to marinate                                                  362
  Samphire                                                           ib.
  Smelts                                                             ib.
  Suckers                                                            ib.
  Vinegar, for pickling                                              ib.
  ----, camp                                                         363
  ----, Chili                                                        ib.
  ----, elder-flower                                                 ib.
  ----, garlic                                                       364
  ----, gooseberry                                                   ib.
  ----, plague or four thieves'                                      365
  ----, raisin                                                       ib.
  ----, raspberry                                                    ib.
  Walnuts, black                                                     366
  ----, green                                                        367
  ----, ketchup of                                                   ib.


WINES, CORDIALS, LIQUEURS, &c.

  Ale, to drink in a week                                            369
  ----, very rare                                                    ib.
  ----, orange                                                       ib.
  Aqua mirabilis                                                     370
  Bitters                                                            ib.
  Cherry brandy                                                      ib.
  Cherry water, cordial                                              ib.
  Cordial, very fine                                                 371
  Cup                                                                ib.
  Elder-flower water                                                 ib.
  Elder-berry syrup                                                  ib.
  Ginger beer                                                        372
  Imperial                                                           373
  Lemonade                                                           ib.
  ----, clarified                                                    374
  ----, milk                                                         ib.
  ----, transparent                                                  ib.
  Lemon water                                                        ib.
  Mead                                                               ib.
  Mithridate brandy                                                  375
  Nonpareil                                                          ib.
  Noyau                                                              376
  Orange juice                                                       ib.
  Oranges, or lemons, spirit of                                      ib.
  Orange-water, cordial                                              ib.
  Orgeat                                                             ib.
  Punch, excellent                                                   377
  ----, milk                                                         ib.
  ----, Norfolk                                                      ib.
  ----, Roman                                                        378
  Raspberry liqueur                                                  ib.
  ---- vinegar                                                       ib.
  Ratafia brandy                                                     ib.
  Shrub                                                              379
  ----, currant                                                      ib.
  Spruce beer                                                        ib.
  Wine, bittany                                                      379
  ----, champagne, sham                                              380
  ----, cherry                                                       ib.
  ----, cowslip                                                      ib.
  ----, currant                                                      381
  ----, currant, or elder                                            382
  ----, currant, black                                               ib.
  ----, currant, red                                                 ib.
  ----, currant, red or white                                        ib.
  ----, damson                                                       383
  ----, elder                                                        ib.
  ----, elder flower                                                 385
  ----, frontiniac, sham                                             ib.
  ----, mixed fruit                                                  ib.
  ----, ginger                                                       ib.
  ----, gooseberry                                                   386
  ----, grape                                                        387
  ----, lemon                                                        388
  ----, madeira, sham                                                ib.
  ----, orange                                                       ib.
  ----, port, sham                                                   389
  ----, raisin                                                       ib.




  THE
  LADY'S OWN COOKERY BOOK.




GENERAL DIRECTIONS.


The following directions may appear trite and common, but it is of the
greatest consequence that they be strictly observed:

Attend to minute cleanliness. Never wipe a dish, bowl, or pan, with a
half dirty napkin, or give the vessel a mere rinse in water and think
that it is then fit for use. See that it be dried and pure from all
smell before you put in any ingredient.

Never use the hands when it is possible to avoid it; and, when you do,
have a clean basin of water to dip them in, and wipe them thoroughly
several times while at work, as in mixing dough, &c.

Use silver or wooden spoons; the latter are best for all confectionery
and puddings. Take care that the various spoons, skewers, and knives, be
not used promiscuously for cookery and confectionery, or even for
different dishes of the same sort.

If an onion is cut with any knife, or lies near any article of kitchen
use, that article is not fit for service till it has been duly scoured
and laid in the open air. The same remark applies to very many strong
kitchen herbs. This point is scarcely ever enough attended to.

In measuring quantities, be extremely exact, having always some
particular vessel set apart for each ingredient (best of earthenware,
because such cannot retain any smell) wherewith to ascertain your
quantities. Do nothing by guess, how practised soever you may deem
yourself in the art: nor say "Oh! I want none of your measures for such
a thing as a little seasoning," taking a pinch here and there. Be
assured you will never in that way make a dish, or a sauce, twice in the
same manner; it may be good by _chance_, but it will always be a
_chance_, and the chances are very much against it; at all events it
will not be precisely the _same_ thing, and precision is the very
essence of good cookery.

The French say _Il faut que rien ne domine_--No one ingredient must
predominate. This is a good rule to please general taste and great
judges; but, to secure the favour of a particular palate it is not
infallible: as, in a good herb soup, for instance, it may better delight
the master or mistress that some one herb or savoury meat _should_
predominate. Consult, therefore, the peculiarities of the tastes of your
employer; for, though a dish may be a good dish of its kind, if it is
not suited to the taste of the eater of what avail is it?

Let not the vanity of the cook induce you to forget the duty of a
servant, which is, in the first place, to please his master: be
particular, therefore, in enquiring what things please your employer.
Many capital cooks will be found for great feasts and festivals, but
very few for every-day service, because this is not "eye-service," but
the service of principle and duty. Few, indeed, there are who will take
equal pains to make one delicate dish, one small exquisite dinner, for
the three hundred and sixty-five days in the year; yet this is by far
the most valuable attainment of the two.

The great secret of all cookery consists in making fine meat jellies;
this is done at less expence than may be imagined by a _careful, honest_
cook. For this purpose let all parings of meats of every kind, all
bones, however dry they may appear, be carefully collected, and put over
a very slow fire in a small quantity of water, always adding a little
more as the water boils down. Skim this juice when cool: and, having
melted it a second time, pass it through a sieve till thoroughly pure:
put no salt or pepper; use this fine jelly for any sauce, adding herbs,
or whatever savoury condiments you think proper, at the time it is used.

Be careful all summer long to dry vegetables and herbs. Almost every
herb and vegetable may be dried and preserved for winter use; for on
these must chiefly depend all the varied flavours of your dishes.
Mushrooms and artichokes strung on a string, with a bit of wood knotted
in between each to prevent their touching, and hung in a dry place, will
be excellent; and every species of culinary herb may be preserved either
in bottles or paper bags.




A CATALOGUE OF THINGS IN SEASON.


JANUARY.

_Fish._

Cod, skate, thornback, salmon, soles, eels, perch, carp, tench,
flounders, prawns, lobsters, crabs, shrimps, cockles, muscles, oysters,
smelts, whiting.

_Game and Poultry._

Hares, pheasants, partridges, wild ducks, widgeon, teal, capons,
pullets, fowls, chickens, squab-pigeons, tame rabbits, woodcocks,
snipes, larks, blackbirds, and wood-pigeons.

_Fruit._

Portugal grapes, the Kentish russet, golden French kirton, Dutch
pippins, nonpareils, pearmains, russetting apples, and all sorts of
winter pears.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Many sorts of cabbages, savoys, sprouts, and greens, parsnips, carrots,
turnips, potatoes, celery, endive, cabbage-lettuces, leeks, onions,
horseradish, small salad under glasses, sweet herbs, and parsley, green
and white brocoli, beet-root, beet-leaves and tops, forced asparagus,
cucumbers in hotbeds, French beans and peas in the hothouse.


FEBRUARY.

_Fish._

Cod, skate, thornback, salmon, sturgeon, soles, flounders, whitings,
smelts, crabs, lobsters, prawns, shrimps, oysters, eels, crawfish, carp,
tench, and perch.

_Game and Poultry._

Hares and partridges till the 14th. Turkeys, capons, pullets with eggs,
fowls, chickens, tame rabbits, woodcocks, snipes, all sorts of
wild-fowl, which begin to decline in this month.

_Fruit._

Nearly the same as last month.

_Roots and Vegetables._

The same as last month.


MARCH.

_Fish._

Cod and codlings, turbot, salmon, skate, thornback, smelts, soles,
crabs, lobsters, prawns, flounders, plaice, oysters, perch, carp, tench,
eels, gudgeons, mullet, and sometimes mackerel, comes in.

_Poultry._

Turkeys, pullets, fowls, chickens, ducklings, tame rabbits, pigeons,
guinea-fowl.

_Fruit._

Pineapples, the golden ducket, Dorset pippins, rennetings, Loan's
pearmain, nonpareils, John apples, the later bonchretien and
double-blossom pears.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Carrots, parsnips, turnips, potatoes, beet, leeks, onions, green and
white brocoli, brocoli sprouts, brown and green cole, cabbage sprouts,
greens, spinach, small salad, parsley, sorrel, corn salad, green fennel,
sweet herbs of all sorts, cabbage lettuces, forced mushrooms, asparagus
forced, cucumbers in hotbeds, French beans and peas in hothouses, and
young radishes and onions.


APRIL.

_Fish._

Salmon, turbot, mackerel, skate, thornback, red and grey mullet,
gurnets, pipers, soles, lobsters, oysters, prawns, crawfish, smelts,
carp, perch, pike, gudgeons, eels, and plaice.

_Game and Poultry._

Pullets, fowls, chickens, ducklings, pigeons, tame rabbits, and
sometimes young leverets, guinea-fowl.

_Fruit._

A few apples and pears, pineapples, hothouse grapes, strawberries,
cherries, apricots for tarts, and green gooseberries.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Carrots, potatoes, horseradish, onions, leeks, celery, brocoli sprouts,
cabbage plants, cabbage lettuce, asparagus, spinach, parsley, thyme, all
sorts of small salads, young radishes and onions, cucumbers in hotbeds,
French beans and peas in the hothouse, green fennel, sorrel, chervil,
and, if the weather is fine, all sorts of sweet herbs begin to grow.


MAY.

_Fish._

Turbot, salmon, soles, smelts, trout, whiting, mackerel, herrings, eels,
plaice, flounders, crabs, lobsters, prawns, shrimps, crawfish.

_Game and Poultry._

Pullets, fowls, chickens, guinea-fowl, green geese, ducklings, pigeons,
tame rabbits, leverets, and sometimes turkey poults.

_Fruit._

Strawberries, green apricots, cherries, gooseberries, and currants, for
tarts, hothouse pineapples, grapes, apricots, peaches, and fine
cherries.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Spring carrots, horseradish, beet-root, early cauliflower, spring
cabbage, sprouts, spinach, coss, cabbage, and Silesia lettuces, all
sorts of small salads, asparagus, hotspur beans, peas, fennel, mint,
balm, parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, cucumbers and French beans
forced, radishes, and young onions, mushrooms in the cucumber beds.


JUNE.

_Fish._

Turbot, trout, mackerel, mullet, salmon, salmon trout, soles, smelts,
eels, lobsters, crabs, crawfish, prawns, and shrimps.

_Game and Poultry._

Spring fowls, and chickens, geese, ducks, turkey poults, young wild and
tame rabbits, pigeons, leverets, and wheatears.

_Fruit._

Pineapples, currants, gooseberries, scarlet strawberries, hautboys,
several sorts of cherries, apricots, and green codlings.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Young carrots, early potatoes, young turnips, peas, garden beans,
cauliflowers, summer cabbages, spinach, coss, cabbage, and Silesia
lettuces, French beans, cucumbers, asparagus, mushrooms, purslain,
radishes, turnip-radishes, horseradish, and onions.


JULY.

_Fish._

Turbot, salmon, salmon trout, Berwick and fresh water trout, red and
grey mullet, Johndories, skate, thornback, maids, soles, flounders,
eels, lobsters, crawfish, prawns, and shrimps.

_Game and Poultry._

Leverets, geese, ducks and ducklings, fowls, chickens, turkey poults,
quails, wild rabbits, wheatears, and young wild ducks.

_Fruit._

Pineapples, peaches, apricots, scarlet and wood strawberries, hautboys,
summer apples, codlings, summer pears, green-gage and Orleans plums,
melons, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, cherries of all kinds, and
green walnuts to pickle.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Carrots, potatoes, turnips, onions, cauliflowers, marrowfat and other
peas, Windsor beans, French beans, mushrooms, sorrel, artichokes,
spinach, cabbages, cucumbers, coss and cabbage lettuces, parsley, all
sorts of sweet and potherbs, mint, balm, salsify, and field mushrooms.


AUGUST.

_Fish._

Codlings, some turbot, which goes out this month, skate, thornback,
maids, haddock, flounders, red and grey mullet, Johndories, pike, perch,
gudgeons, roach, eels, oysters, crawfish, some salmon, salmon trout,
Berwick and fresh water trout.

_Game and Poultry._

Leverets, geese, turkey poults, ducks, fowls, chickens, wild rabbits,
quails, wheatears, young wild ducks, and some pigeons.

_Fruit._

Pineapples, melons, cherries, apricots, peaches, nectarines, apples,
pears, all sorts of plums, morella cherries, filberts and other nuts,
currants, raspberries, late gooseberries, figs, early grapes,
mulberries, and ripe codlings.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Carrots, parsnips, turnips, potatoes, onions, horseradish, beet-root,
shalots, garlic, cauliflower, French beans, later peas, cucumbers,
cabbages, sprouts, coss lettuce, endive, celery, parsley, sweet herbs,
artichokes, artichoke suckers, chardoons, mushrooms, and all sorts of
small salads.


SEPTEMBER.

_Fish._

Cod, codlings, skate, thornback, haddocks, soles, whitings, herrings
come in full season, salmon, smelts, flounders, pike, perch, carp,
tench, eels, lampreys, oysters, cockles, muscles, crawfish, prawns, and
shrimps.

_Game and Poultry._

Hares, leverets, partridges, quails, young turkeys, geese, ducks,
capons, pullets, fowls, chickens, pigeons, wild and tame rabbits, wild
ducks, widgeon, teal, plover, larks, and pippets.

_Fruit._

Pineapples, melons, grapes, peaches, plums, nectarines, pears, apples,
quinces, medlars, filberts, hazel nuts, walnuts, morella cherries,
damsons, white and black bullace.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Carrots, parsnips, potatoes, turnips, leeks, horseradish, beet-root,
onions, shalots, garlic, celery, endive, coss and cabbage lettuces,
artichokes, French beans, latter peas, mushrooms, cucumbers, red and
other cabbages, cabbage plants, Jerusalem artichokes, parsley, sorrel,
chervil, thyme, all sorts of sweet herbs, mint, balm, all sorts of small
salad.


OCTOBER.

_Fish._

Cod, codlings, brill, haddocks, whiting, soles, herrings, cole-fish,
halibut, smelts, eels, flounders, perch, pike, carp, tench, oysters,
cockles, muscles, lobsters, crabs, crawfish, prawns, and shrimps.

_Game and Poultry._

Hares, leverets, pheasants, partridges, moor-game, grouse, turkeys,
geese, ducks, capons, pullets, fowls, chickens, pigeons, wild and tame
rabbits, all sorts of wild-fowl, larks, plovers, woodcocks, snipes,
wood-pigeons, pippets.

_Fruit._

Pineapples, peaches, grapes, figs, medlars, all sorts of fine apples and
pears, white plums, damsons, white and black bullace, quinces, filberts,
walnuts, and chesnuts.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Carrots, parsnips, potatoes, turnips, leeks, horseradish, onions,
shalots, garlic, beet-root, artichokes, latter cauliflowers, red and
white cabbages, savoys, cabbage plants, green and white brocoli,
chardoons, green and brown cole, celery, endive, spinach, sorrel,
chervil, parsley, purslain, all sorts of sweet herbs, coss and cabbage
lettuces, rocambole, and all sorts of small salads.


NOVEMBER.

_Fish._

Cod, salmon, herrings, barbel, halibut, smelts, flounders, whiting,
haddock, pipers, gurnets, pike, perch, carp, tench, eels, lobsters,
crabs, oysters, muscles, cockles, crawfish, prawns, and shrimps.

_Game and Poultry._

The same as last month.

_Fruit._

Pineapples, all sorts of winter pears, golden pippins, nonpareils, all
sorts of winter apples, medlars, white and black bullace, and walnuts
kept in sand.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Turnips, potatoes, carrots, parsnips, beets, chardoons, onions, shalots,
garlic, rocambole, cauliflowers in the greenhouse, red and other
cabbages, savoys, cabbage plants, winter spinach, forced asparagus, late
cucumbers, forced mushrooms, parsley, sorrel, chervil, thyme, all sorts
of sweet herbs, celery, endive, cabbage lettuces, brown and green cole,
and all sorts of small salads under glasses.


DECEMBER.

_Fish._

Cod, codlings, halibut, skate, sturgeon, soles, salmon, gurnets,
haddock, whiting, sometimes turbots come with the soles, herrings,
perch, pike, carp, tench, eels, lobsters, crabs, crawfish, muscles,
cockles, prawns, shrimps, Thames flounders, and smelts.

_Game and Poultry._

Hares, pheasants, partridges, moor or heath game, grouse, turkeys,
geese, capons, pullets, fowls, chickens, all sorts of wild-fowl, wood
cocks, snipes, larks, wild and tame rabbits, dottrels, wood-pigeons,
blackbirds, thrushes, plover both green and grey.

_Fruit._

All sorts of winter pears and apples, medlars, chesnuts, Portugal grapes
and grapes hung in the room, and walnuts kept in sand.

_Roots and Vegetables._

Same as the last month.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beef, mutton, and veal, are in season all the year; house lamb in
January, February, March, April, May, October, November, and December.
Grass lamb comes in at Easter and lasts till April or May; pork from
September till April or May; roasting pigs all the year; buck venison in
June, July, August, and September; doe and heifer venison in October,
November, December, and January.




GENERAL RULES FOR A GOOD DINNER.


There should be always two soups, white and brown, two fish, dressed and
undressed; a bouilli and petits-patés; and on the sideboard a plain
roast joint, besides many savoury articles, such as hung beef, Bologna
sausages, pickles, cold ham, cold pie, &c. some or all of these
according to the number of guests, the names of which the head-servant
ought to whisper about to the company, occasionally offering them. He
should likewise carry about all the side-dishes or _entrées_, after the
soups are taken away in rotation. A silver lamp should be kept burning,
to put any dish upon that may grow cold.

It is indispensable to have candles, or plateau, or epergne, in the
middle of the table.

Beware of letting the table appear loaded; neither should it be too
bare. The soups and fish should be dispatched before the rest of the
dinner is set on; but, lest any of the guests eat of neither, two small
dishes of patés should be on the table. Of course, the meats and
vegetables and fruits which compose these dinners must be varied
according to the season, the number of guests, and the tastes of the
host and hostess. It is also needless to add that without iced champagne
and Roman punch a dinner is not called a dinner.

These observations and the following directions for dinners are suitable
to persons who chuse to live _fashionably_; but the receipts contained
in this book will suit any mode of living, and the persons consulting it
will find matter for all tastes and all establishments. There is many an
excellent dish not considered adapted to a fashionable table, which,
nevertheless, is given in these pages.


A DINNER FOR FOURTEEN OR SIXTEEN PERSONS.

N.B. It is the fashion to lay two table-cloths, and never to leave the
table uncovered. Of course, the individual things must be varied
according to the season.

FIRST COURSE.

  Queen Soup, white,
  removed by
  Plain boiled Turbot.

  Petits Patés of Oysters.

  +----------+
  | Plateau, |
  |   or     |
  | Epergne, |
  |   or     |
  | Candles. |
  +----------+

  Petits Patés of Chickens.

  Herb Soup, brown,
  removed by
  Dressed fish (Salmon.)

  Remove the whole and set on as follows:--

  Sweetbreads,             Stewed Beef,             Small
  larded.                  with                     Beef
                           Vegetables.              Pies.

  Reindeer Tongues,        Dressed Peas.            Rissoles of
  highly dressed in                                 Veal and Ham,
  sauce.                                            served
                                                    in sauce.

  Macaroni,                +----------+             Dressed
  with                     |          |             Eggs.
  Parmesan                 | Plateau. |
  cheese.                  |          |
                           +----------+

  Mutton                   Stuffed Cabbage.         Supreme of
  Cutlets                                           Fowls.
  glazed in
  onion sauce.

  Vol-au-vent.             Roasted Turkey,          Small breast
                           with truffles,           of Veal
                           morels, chesnuts, &c.    glazed brown, with
                                                    Peas under.

  On the sideboard, fish sauces, cold pie, hot ham, saddle of mutton
  roasted; pickles, cucumbers, salad, mashed potatoes, greens, and
  cauliflowers, crumbs of bread, and grated Parmesan cheese. These
  should be handed round, to eat with soup, or game, or fowl, if liked.


SECOND COURSE.

                           Larded Hare,
                           removed by
                           Souffle[16-*].
  Cauliflower,                                      Orange
  with cheese.                                      Jelly.
                           Apples
                           in compote.

                           +----------+
  Puffs and                |          |             Stewed
  Tartlets.                | Plateau. |             Partridges.
                           |          |
                           +----------+

  Dressed                                           Italian
  Pigeons.                                          Cream.
                           Creams
                           in
                           Glasses.

  Small Puddings,          Two roasted Pheasants,   Jerusalem
  with sauce.              one larded,              Artichokes.
                           one plain,
                           removed by
                           Fondu[16-+].

  [16-*] Light sweet Pudding.

  [16-+] Melted Cheese.

Remove the whole.



THIRD COURSE.

                           Gruyère[17-*]
  Pickles.                 Cheese                   Pickles.
                           and
                           Schabzieger[17-*].

                           Savoury Toasts.
  Bologna                                           Brawn.
  Sausages.                +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
                           +----------+
  Cold Pie.                                         Cold Pie.
                           Savoury Toasts.

  Anchovies.                                        Kipper Salmon.
                           Stilton
                           and
                           Parmesan.

  Radishes, cucumbers, salad, butter, &c. to be handed from the side
  table.

  [17-*] Swiss cheeses.


DESSERT.

                           Cream Ice,
  Pistachio Nuts and       removed by               Figs.
  Orange chips.            a Preserved
                           Pineapple.

  Dried                    Cake.                    Preserved
  Sweetmeats.                                       Plums.

                           +----------+
  Chantilly                |          |             Pyramid with
  Basket.                  | Plateau. |             various Sweetmeats.
                           |          |
                           +----------+

  Almonds                  Cake.                    Preserves of
  and Raisins.                                      Apricots.

  Brandy                   Water Ice                Sugared
  Cherries.                à la Macedoine,          Walnuts.
                           removed by
                           Grapes.


DINNER FOR TWELVE OR FOURTEEN PERSONS.

FIRST COURSE.

                           White Soups,
  Lamb Cutlets and         removed by plain Fish:   Stewed Chicken.
  Asparagus sauce.         removed by Bouilli,
                           dressed according to any
                           of the various receipts.

                           Patés.

                           Dressed Vegetable
  Fricandeau, or           in a mould.              Beef Olives.
  Sorrel sauce.
                           +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
  Small                    +----------+             Small Ham,
  savoury Pies.                                     glazed.
                           Macaroni
                           in a mould.

                           Patés.

                           Breast of Veal, stewed
                           white, as per receipt.
  Dressed Eggs.                                     Small Ragout of
                           Any of the Brown Soups,  Mutton.
                           removed by any of the
                           dressed Fish.

  Sideboard furnished with plain joint and vegetables of all sorts,
  pickles, &c.


SECOND COURSE.

  Charlotte.                                        Plover's Eggs.
                           Grouse.

                           Tart.

  Jelly.                                            Custards.
                           +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
  Partridges.              +----------+             Woodcocks.

                           Trifle.

  Fried Artichokes.                                 Dressed Sea Kale.

                           Leveret.


THIRD COURSE.

                           Various Cheeses,
                           with
                           Red Herring.

                           Savoury Toasts.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
  Radishes, Cucumbers,     | Plateau. |             Sausages, &c.
  &c.                      |          |
                           +----------+

                           Savoury Toasts.

                           Potted Game.


DESSERT.

                           Ice Water,
  Chesnuts.                removed by               Walnuts.
                           Pineapple.

                           Various
                           Cake.
  Green Figs.                                       Apples.
                           +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
  Filberts.                +----------+             Grapes.

                           Various
                           Cake.
  Plums.                                            Pears.
                           Ice Cream,
                           removed by
                           Peaches.


DINNER FOR TEN OR TWELVE PERSONS.

FIRST COURSE.

  Scotch Collops,          Brown Soup,              Ragout of
  brown.                   removed by               Ham.
                           Fish,
                           removed by
                           Boiled Turkey,
                           white sauce.

  Vol-au-vent                                       Fricandeau,
  of Chicken.              +----------+             with Spinach.
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
  Cutlets with             +----------+             Rissoles
  Tomata sauce.                                     of Fowl.
                           White Soup,
                           removed by
                           Dressed Fish,
                           removed by
  Macaroni                 Roast Mutton.            Patés
  in paste.                                         of Veal.

  Sideboard--salad, brocoli, mashed potatoes, cold pie, potted meats.


SECOND COURSE.

  Orange Jelly.            Peahen,                  Plum Puddings.
                           larded.

                          +----------+
                          |          |
  Stewed Truffles.        | Plateau. |              Blancmange.
                          |          |
                          +----------+

  Tart,                   Two                       Eggs, with
  Sponge Cake,            Wild Fowls.               white sauce,
  with Custard.                                     cheesecakes.

  Sideboard, Sea Kale, Pickles, Greens, Potatoes.


THIRD COURSE.

                           Gruyère--Schabzieger.
  Butter.                                           Celery.
                           Grated Parmesan.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
  Radishes.                | Plateau. |             Cheese in
                           |          |             square pieces.
                           +----------+

                           Salad.


DESSERT.

                           Ice.
  Biscuits.                                         Currants.
                           Apricots.

                           Various Cakes.
  Strawberries.                                     Preserved Orange.
                           +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
  Preserved Pine.          +----------+             Cherries.

                           Cakes.

                           Peaches.
  Gooseberries.                                     Wafers.
                           Ice.


DINNER FOR EIGHT PERSONS.

FIRST COURSE.

  Dressed                                           Patés of Veal
  Asparagus.                                        and Ham.
                           Fish,
                           removed by
                           Loin of Mutton,
                           rolled with
                           Tomata sauce.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
  Dressed Tongues.         | Plateau. |             Beef Olives.
                           |          |             Stewed Spinach.
                           +----------+

                           Soup,
                           removed by
                           Roast Neck of Veal,
                           with rich white sauce
                           and Mushrooms.
  Macaroni.                                         Stewed Spinach.

  Sideboard, a bouilli, a joint, pickles, plain boiled vegetables, &c.



SECOND COURSE.

                           Stewed Pigeons,
  Dressed                  removed by               Dressed
  Eggs.                    a Fondu.                 French beans.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
  Apple Tart.              | Plateau. |             Four small
                           |          |             Plum Puddings.
                           +----------+

                           Roast Fowl,
  Fried                    with                     Dressed Ham.
  Artichokes.              Water Cresses,
                           removed by
                           Souffle.

  When a plain roast fowl, there should be on the sideboard egg sauce or
  bread sauce; if a plain duck, wine sauce or onion sauce.


CHEESE COURSE.

  Various Cheeses,
  Bologna Sausages,
  Pickles.
  Savoury Toasts,
  &c. &c.


DESSERT.

                           Ice Cream,
                           removed by
                           a large Cake
                           stuck with Sweetmeats.

  Oranges.                 Brandy                   Dry Preserves.
                           Cherries.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
                           +----------+

  Wet Preserves.                                    Apples.
                           Brandy
                           Peaches.

                           Strawberries.


DINNER FOR SIX PERSONS.

FIRST COURSE.

                           Asparagus Soup,
                           removed by
  Small Ham.               Fish,                    Sea Kale,
                           removed by               white sauce.
                           Roast Veal
                           bechamelled.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
                           +----------+

  Stewed Turnips,          Alamode                  Mutton Cutlets,
  browned.                 Beef.                    Sauce piquante.


SECOND COURSE.

                           Turkey Poult stuffed,
  Blancmange.              glazed brown,            Croquets
                           fine rich brown sauce    of Potatoes.
                           under.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
                           +----------+

  Dressed Peas.            Stewed Duck,             Tart.
                           with Truffles, Morells,
                           &c.


THIRD COURSE.

Two or three sorts of cheeses (plain), a small fondu, relishes, &c.


DESSERT.

                           Ice,
  Brandy Peaches.          removed by               Apples.
                           Preserved Citron.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
                           | Plateau. |
                           |          |
                           +----------+

                           Large Cake
  Oranges.                 like a hedgehog,         Dry Preserves.
                           stuck with Almonds.


DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS.

FIRST COURSE.

                           Hare Soup,
                           removed by
                           Fish,
                           removed by
                           Bouilli Beef.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
  Tendrons de veau.        | Plateau. |             Dressed Ham.
                           |          |             Brocoli.
                           +----------+

                           Chicken Pie


SECOND COURSE.

  Raspberry                Widgeon.                 Stewed
  Cream.                                            French Beans.

                           +----------+
                           |          |
  Croquettes               | Plateau. |             Tart.
  of Potatoes.             |          |
                           +----------+

                           Partridge.


  Cheese as usual.


DESSERT.

  Orange Chips.          Dry Preserves.

  Wet Preserves.         Wafers.




SOUPS.


_Almond Soup._

Take lean beef or veal, about eight or nine pounds, and a scrag of
mutton; boil them gently in water that will cover them, till the gravy
be very strong and the meat very tender; then strain off the gravy and
set it on the fire with two ounces of vermicelli, eight blades of mace,
twelve cloves, to a gallon. Let it boil till it has the flavour of the
spices. Have ready one pound of the best almonds, blanched and pounded
very fine; pound them with the yolks of twelve eggs, boiled hard, mixing
as you pound them with a little of the soup, lest the almonds should
grow oily. Pound them till they are a mere pulp: add a little soup by
degrees to the almonds and eggs until mixed together. Let the soup be
cool when you mix it, and do it perfectly smooth. Strain it through a
sieve; set it on the fire; stir it frequently; and serve it hot. Just
before you take it up add a gill of thick cream.


_Asparagus Soup._

Put five or six pounds of lean beef, cut in pieces and rolled in flour,
into your stewpan, with two or three slices of bacon at the bottom: set
it on a slow fire and cover it close, stirring it now and then, till
your gravy is drawn; then put in two quarts of water and half a pint of
pale ale; cover it close and let it stew gently for an hour. Put in some
whole pepper and salt to your taste. Then strain out the liquor and take
off the fat; put in the leaves of white beet, some spinach, some cabbage
lettuce, a little mint, sorrel, and sweet marjoram, pounded; let these
boil up in your liquor. Then put in your green tops of asparagus, cut
small, and let them boil till all is tender. Serve hot, with the crust
of a French roll in the dish.


_Another._

Boil three half pints of winter split peas; rub them through a sieve;
add a little gravy; then stew by themselves the following
herbs:--celery, a few young onions, a lettuce, cut small, and about half
a pint of asparagus, cut small, like peas, and stewed with the rest;
colour the soup of a pea green with spinach juice; add half a pint of
cream or good milk, and serve up.


_Calf's Head Soup._

Take a knuckle of veal, and put as much water to it as will make a good
soup; let it boil, skimming it very well. Add two carrots, three
anchovies, a little mace, pepper, celery, two onions, and some
sweetherbs. Let it boil to a good soup, and strain it off. Put to it a
full half pint of Madeira wine; take a good many mushrooms, stew them in
their own liquor; add this sauce to your soup. Scald the calf's head as
for a hash; cut it in the same manner, but smaller; flour it a little,
and fry it of a fine brown. Then put the soup and fried head together
into a stewpan, with some oysters and mushrooms, and let them stew
gently for an hour.


_Carrot Soup._

Take about two pounds of veal and the same of lean beef; make it into a
broth or gravy, and put it by until wanted. Take a quarter of a pound of
butter, four large fine carrots, two turnips, two parsnips, two heads of
celery, and four onions; stew these together about two hours, and shake
it often that they may not burn to the stewpan; then add the broth made
as above, boiling hot, in quantity to your own judgment, and as you like
it for thickness. It should be of about the consistency of pea-soup.
Pass it through a tamis. Season to your taste.


_Another._

Take four pounds of beef, a scrag of mutton, about a dozen large
carrots, four onions, some pepper and salt; put them into a gallon of
water, and boil very gently for four hours. Strain the meat, and take
the carrots and rub them very smooth through a hair sieve, adding the
gravy by degrees till about as thick as cream. The gravy must have all
the fat taken off before it is added to the carrots. Turnip soup is made
in the same way.


_Clear Soup._

Take six pounds of gravy beef; cut it small, put it into a large
stewpan, with onions, carrots, turnips, celery, a small bunch of herbs,
and one cup of water. Stew these on the fire for an hour, then add nine
pints of boiling water; let it boil for six hours, strain it through a
fine sieve, and let it stand till next day; take off the fat; put it
into a clean stewpan, set it on the fire till it is quite hot; then
break three eggs into a basin, leaving the shells with them. Add this to
the soup by degrees; cover close till it boils; then strain it into a
pan through a fine cloth. When the eggs are well beaten, a little hot
soup must be added by degrees, and beaten up before it is put into the
stewpan with the whole of the soup.


_Clear Herb Soup._

Put celery, leeks, carrots, turnips, cabbage lettuce, young onions, all
cut fine, with a handful of young peas: give them a scald in boiling
water; put them on a sieve to drain, and then put them into a clear
consommé, and let them boil slowly till the roots are quite tender.
Season with a little salt. When going to table put a little crust of
French roll in it.


_Cod's Head Soup._

Take six large onions, cut them in slices, and put them in a stewpan,
with a quarter of a pound of the freshest butter. Set it in a stove to
simmer for an hour, covered up close; take the head, and with a knife
and fork pick all the fins you can get off the fish. Put this in a dish,
dredge it well with flour, and let it stand. Take all the bones of the
head and the remainder, and boil them on the fire for an hour, with an
English pint of water. Strain off the liquor through a sieve, and put it
to your onions; take a good large handful of parsley, well washed and
picked clean; chop it as fine as possible; put it in the soup; let it
just boil, otherwise it will make it yellow. Add a little cayenne
pepper, two spoonfuls of anchovy, a little soy, a little of any sort of
ketchup, and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Then put the fish that has
been set aside on the plate into the stewpan to the soup, and let it
simmer for ten minutes. If not thick enough add a small piece of butter
rolled in flour.


_Crawfish Soup._

Boil off your crawfish; take the tails out of the shells; roast a couple
of lobsters; beat these with your crawfish shells; put this into your
fish stock, with some crusts of French rolls. Rub the whole through a
tamis, and put your tails into it. You may farce a carp and put in the
middle, if you please, or farce some of the shells and stick on a French
roll.


_Crawfish, or Lobster Soup._

Take some middling and small fishes, and put them in a gallon of water,
with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, sweetherbs, and onions; boil them to
pieces, and strain them out of the liquor. Then take a large fish, cut
the flesh off one side, make forcemeat of it, and lay it on the fish;
dredge grated bread in it, and butter a dish well; put it in the oven
and bake it. Then take one hundred crawfish, break the shells of the
tails and claws, take out the meat as whole as you can; pound the shells
and add the spawn of a lobster pounded; put them into the soup, and, if
you like, a little veal gravy; give them a boil or two together. Strain
the liquor off into another saucepan, with the tops of French bread,
dried, beat fine, and sifted. Give it a boil to thicken; then brown some
butter, and put in the tails and claws of the crawfish, and some of the
forcemeat made into balls. Lay the baked fish in the middle of the dish,
pour the soup boiling hot on it; if you like, add yolks of eggs, boiled
hard, pounded, and mixed by degrees with the soup.


_Curry or Mulligatawny Soup._

Boil a large chicken or fowl in a pint of water till half done; add a
table-spoonful of curry powder, with the juice of one lemon and a half;
boil it again gently till the meat is done.

For a large party you must double the quantity of all the articles, and
always proportion the water to the quantity of gravy you think the meat
will yield.


_Eel Soup._

Take two pounds of eels; put to them two quarts of water, a crust of
bread, two or three blades of mace, some whole pepper, one onion, and a
bunch of sweet herbs. Cover them close, and let them stew till the
liquor is reduced to one half, and if the soup is not rich enough it
must boil till it is stronger.--Then strain it, toast some bread, and
cut it in small.

This soup will be as good as if meat were put into it. A pound of eels
makes a pint of soup.


_Fish Soup._

Stew the heads, tails, and fins, of any sort of flat fish or haddock.
Strain and thicken with a little flour and butter; add pepper, salt,
anchovy, and ketchup, to taste. Cut the fish in thick pieces, and let
them stew gently till done.


_French Soup._

Take the scrag end of a neck of mutton, or two pounds of any meat, and
make it into very strong broth; then take one large cabbage, three
lettuces, three carrots, one root of celery, and two onions; cut them
all small, and fry them with butter. Pour your broth upon your
vegetables a little at a time, cover it up close, and let it stew three
hours or more. Serve with the vegetables.


_Friar's Chicken._

Stew a knuckle of veal, a neck of mutton, a large fowl, two pounds of
giblets, two large onions, two bunches of turnips, one bunch of carrots,
a bunch of thyme, and another of sage, eight hours over a very slow
stove, till every particle of juice is extracted from the meat and
vegetables. Take it off the stove, pass it through a hair tamis; have
ready a pound of grated veal, or, what is better, of grated chicken,
with a large bunch of parsley, chopped very fine and mingled with it.
Put this into the broth; set it on the stove again, and while there
break four raw eggs into it. Stir the whole for about a quarter of an
hour and serve up hot.


_Giblet Soup._ No. 1.

Take the desired quantity of strong beef gravy; add to it a few slices
of veal fried in butter; take a piece of butter rolled in flour, and
with it fry some sliced onion and thyme; when made brown, add it to the
soup. When sufficiently stewed, strain and put to it two spoonfuls of
ketchup, a few spoonfuls of Madeira, and a little lemon juice. The
giblets being separately stewed in a pint of water, add their gravy to
the soup.


_Giblet Soup._ No. 2.

Parboil the giblets, and pour the water from them; put them into fresh
water or thin gravy, with a large onion stuck with cloves; season it to
your taste; boil them till the flesh comes from the bones. Mix the yolk
of an egg with flour into a paste; roll it two or three times over with
a rollingpin; cut it in pieces, and thicken the soup with it.


_Giblet Soup._ No. 3.

Take three pair of goose giblets; scald and cut them as for stewing; set
them on the fire in three quarts of water, and when the scum rises skim
them well: put in a bundle of sweet herbs, some cloves, mace, and
allspice, tied in a bag, with some pepper and salt. Stew them very
gently till nearly tender: mix a quarter of a pound of butter with
flour, and put it in, with half a pint of white wine, and a little
cayenne pepper. Stew them till thick and smooth; take out the herbs and
spices; skim well; boil the livers in a quart of water till tender, and
put in. Serve up in a terrine or dish.


_Gravy Soup._ No. 1.

Put two pounds of gravy beef, cut in small pieces, with pepper, salt,
some whole pepper, and a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, into a
stewpan. When drawn to a good gravy, pour in three quarts of boiling
water; add some mace, four heads of celery, one carrot, and three or
four onions. Let them stew gently about an hour and a half; then strain;
add an ounce and half of vermicelli, and let it stew about ten minutes
longer.


_Gravy Soup._ No. 2.

Take two ox melts, cut them in pieces, season them with pepper and salt,
and dredge them with flour. Shred two large onions, fry them of a nice
brown colour, put them at the bottom of the saucepan with a piece of
butter. Take one ox rump, stew it with carrots and celery and twelve
allspice. Then put all together and strain well. This quantity will make
three quarts. You may send the ox rump to table in the soup, if
approved. Two carrots and two heads of celery will be sufficient.


_Gravy Soup._ No. 3.

Cut the lean part of a shin of beef, the same of a knuckle of veal, and
set the bones of both on the fire, in two gallons of water, to make
broth. Put the meat in a stewpan; add some lean bacon or ham, one
carrot, two turnips, two heads of celery, two large onions, a bunch of
sweet herbs, some whole pepper, two race of ginger, six cloves. Set
these over the fire, let it draw till all the gravy is dried up to a
nice brown; then add the broth that is made with the bones. Let it boil
slowly four or five hours. Make the soup the day before you want to use
it, that you may take the fat clean from the top, also the sediment from
the bottom. Have ready some turnips, carrots, and cabbage lettuces, cut
small, and one pint of young peas; add these to your soup; let it boil
one hour, and it will be ready, with salt to your taste.


_Hare Soup._

Skin the hare, and wash the inside well. Separate the limbs, legs,
shoulders, and back; put them into a stewpan, with two glasses of port
wine, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bundle of parsley, a little
thyme, some sweet basil and marjoram, a pinch of salt, and cayenne
pepper. Set the whole over a slow fire, and let it simmer for an hour;
then add a quart of beef gravy and a quart of veal gravy; let the whole
simmer gently till the hare is done. Strain the meat; then pass the
soup through a sieve, and put a penny roll to soak in the broth. Take
all the flesh of the hare from the bones, and pound it in a mortar, till
fine enough to be rubbed through a sieve, taking care that none of the
bread remains in it. Thicken the broth with the meat of the hare; rub it
all together till perfectly fine, like melted butter, not thicker; heat
it, and serve it up very hot. Be careful not to let it boil, as that
will spoil it.


_Another._

Half roast a good-sized hare; cut the back and legs in square pieces;
stew the remaining part with five pints of good broth, a bunch of sweet
herbs, three blades of mace, three large shalots, shred fine, two large
onions, one head of celery, one dozen white pepper, eight cloves, and a
slice of ham. Simmer the whole together three hours; then strain and rub
it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon; return the gravy into a
stewpan; throw in the back and legs, and let it simmer three quarters of
an hour before you send it to table.


_Hessian Soup._

Take seven pints of water, one pint of split peas, one pound of lean
beef, cut into small slices, three quarters of a pound of potatoes,
three ounces of ground rice, two heads of celery, two onions, or leeks.
Season with pepper and salt, and dried mint, according to your taste.
Let it all boil slowly together till reduced to five pints.


_Another._

One pound of beef, one pint of split peas, three turnips, four ounces
ground rice, three potatoes, three onions, one head of celery, seven
pints of water. Boil till reduced to six pints; then strain it through a
hair sieve, with a little whole pepper.


_Mock Turtle Soup._ No. 1.

Take a calf's head, very white and very fresh, bone the nose part of it;
put the head into some warm water to discharge the blood; squeeze the
flesh with your hand to ascertain that it is all thoroughly out; blanch
the head in boiling water. When firm, put it into cold water, which
water must be prepared as follows: cut half a pound of fat bacon, a
pound of beef suet, an onion stuck with two cloves, two thick slices of
lemon; put these into a vessel, with water enough to contain the head;
boil the head in this, and take it off when boiled, leaving it to cool.
Then make your sauce in the following manner: put into a stewpan a pound
of ham cut into slices; put over the ham two knuckles of veal, two
large onions, and two carrots; moisten with some of the broth in which
you have boiled the head to half the depth of the meat only; cover the
stewpan, and set it on a slow fire to sweat through; let the broth
reduce to a good rich colour; turn up the meat for fear of burning. When
you have a very good colour, moisten with the whole remaining broth from
the head; season with a very large bundle of sweet herbs, sweet basil,
sweet marjoram, lemon-thyme, common thyme, two cloves, and a bay leaf, a
few allspice, parsley, and green onions and mushrooms. Let the whole
boil together for one hour; then drain it. Put into a stewpan a quarter
of a pound of very fresh butter, let it melt over a very slow fire; put
to this butter as much flour as it can receive till the flour has
acquired a very good brown colour; moisten this gradually with the broth
till you have employed it all; add half a bottle of good white wine; let
the sauce boil that the flour may be well done; take off all the scum
and fat; pass it through a sieve. Cut the meat off the calf's head in
pieces of about an inch square; put them to boil in the sauce; season
with salt, a little cayenne pepper, and lemon juice. Throw in some
forcemeat balls, made according to direction, and a few hard yolks of
eggs, and serve up hot.


_Mock Turtle._ No. 2.

Take a calf's head with the skin on; let it be perfectly well cleaned
and scalded, if it is sent otherwise from the butcher's. You should
examine and see that it is carefully done, and that it looks white and
clean, by raising the skin from the bone with a knife. Boil it about
twenty minutes; put it in cold water for about ten minutes; take the
skin clean from the flesh, and cut it in square pieces. Cut the tongue
out, and boil it until it will peel; then cut it in small pieces, and
put it all together. Line the bottom of a soup-pot with slices of ham, a
bay-leaf, a bunch of thyme, some other herbs, and an onion stuck with
six cloves. Cover all this with a slice of fat bacon, to keep the meat
from burning, dry it in a clean cloth, and lay it in the pot with salt,
cayenne pepper, and as much mace as will lie on a shilling: and cover
the meat over with the parings of the head, and some slices of veal. Add
to it a pint of good strong broth; put the cover over the pot as close
as possible, and let it simmer two hours. When the head is tender, make
the browning as follows: put into a stewpan a good quarter of a pound of
butter; as it boils, dredge in a very little flour, keeping it stirring,
and throw in by degrees an onion chopped very fine, a little thyme,
parsley, &c. picked, also chopped very fine. Put them in by degrees,
stirring all the time; then add a pint of good strong broth, a pint of
good Madeira wine, and all the liquor with your meat in the stewpot. Let
them boil all together, till the spirit of the wine is evaporated, for
that should not predominate. Add the juice of two or three large lemons;
then put in the head, tongue, &c.; skim the fat off as it rises. Dish it
very hot; add forcemeat balls and hard eggs, made thus: take six or
eight and boil them hard; then take the yolks, and pound them in a
mortar with a dust of flour, and half or more of a raw egg, (beaten up)
as you may judge sufficient. Rub it all to a paste; add a little salt;
then roll them into little eggs, and add them, with the forcemeat balls,
to the turtle when you dish it.


_Mock Turtle._ No. 3.

Neat's feet instead of calf's head; that is, two calf's feet and two
neat's feet.


_Mock Turtle._ No. 4.

Two neat's and two calf's feet cut into pieces an inch long, and put
into two quarts of strong mutton gravy, with a pint of Madeira. Take
three dozen oysters, four anchovies, two onions, some lemon-peel, and
mace, with a few sweet herbs; shred all very fine, with half a
tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, and add them to the feet. Let all stew
together two hours and a quarter. Just before you send it to table, add
the juice of two small lemons, and put forcemeat balls and hard eggs to
it.


_Mulligatawny Soup._ No. 1.

Cut in pieces three fowls; reserve the best pieces of one of them for
the terrine; cut the remainder very small: add to them a pound of lean
ham, some garlic, bay-leaves, spices, whole mace, peppercorns, onions,
pickles of any kind that are of a hot nature, and about four
table-spoonfuls of good curry-powder. Cover the ingredients with four
quarts of strong veal stock, and boil them till the soup is well
flavoured: then strain that to the fowl you have reserved, which must be
fried with onions. Simmer the whole till quite tender, and serve it up
with plain boiled rice.


_Mulligatawny Soup._ No. 2.

Boil a knuckle of veal of about five pounds weight; let it stand till
cold; then strain, and fry it in a little butter. Strain the liquor, and
leave it till cold; take the fat off. Fry four onions brown in butter,
add four dessert spoonfuls of curry-powder, a little turmeric, a little
cayenne; put all these together in the soup. Let it simmer for two
hours, and if not then thick enough, add a little suet and flour, and
plain boiled rice to eat with it; and there should be a chicken or fowl,
half roasted, and cut up in small pieces, then fried in butter of a
light brown colour, and put into the soup instead of the veal, as that
is generally too much boiled.


_Mulligatawny Soup._ No. 3.

Have some good broth made, chiefly of the knuckle of veal: when cold
skim the fat off well, and pass the broth when in a liquid state through
the sieve. Cut a chicken or rabbit into joints, (chicken or turkey is
preferable to rabbit,) fry it well, with four or five middle-sized
onions shred fine; shake a table-spoonful of curry-powder over it, and
put it into the broth. Let it simmer three hours, and serve it up with a
seasoning of cayenne pepper.


_Onion Soup._ No. 1.

Take twelve large Spanish onions, slice and fry them in good butter. Let
them be done very brown, but not to burn, which they are apt to do when
they are fried. Put to them two quarts of boiling water, or weak veal
broth; pepper and salt to your taste. Let them stew till they are quite
tender and almost dissolved; then add crumbs of bread made crisp,
sufficient to make it of a proper thickness. Serve hot.


_Onion Soup._ No. 2.

Boil three pounds of veal with a handful of sweet herbs, and a little
mace; when well boiled strain it through a sieve, skim off all the fat.
Pare twenty-five onions; boil them soft, rub them through a sieve, and
mix them with the veal gravy and a pint of cream, salt, and cayenne
pepper, to your taste. Give it a boil and serve up; but do not put in
the cream till it comes off the fire.


_Onion Soup._ No. 3.

Take two quarts of strong broth made of beef; twelve onions; cut these
in four quarters, lay them in water an hour to soak. Brown four ounces
of butter, put the onions into it, with some pepper and salt, cover them
close, and let them stew till tender: cut a French loaf into slices, or
sippets, and fry them in fresh butter; put them into your dish, and boil
your onions and butter in your soup. When done enough, squeeze in the
juice of a lemon, and pour it into your dish with the fried sippets. You
may add poached eggs, if it pleases your palate.


_Ox Head Soup._

Bone the head and cut it in pieces; wash it extremely clean from the
blood; set it on the fire in three gallons of water. Put in a dozen
onions, eight turnips, six anchovies, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Let
all stew together very gently, till it is quite tender. Carefully skim
off all the fat as it boils, but do not stir it. Take cabbage lettuce,
celery, chervil, and turnips, all boiled tender and cut small; put them
into the soup, and let them boil all together half an hour.


_Another._

To half an ox's head put three gallons of water, and boil it three
hours. Clean and cut it small and fine; let it stew for an hour with one
pint of water, which must be put to it boiling; then add the three
gallons boiling.


_Green Pea Soup._ No. 1.

Take a knuckle of veal of about four pounds, chop it in pieces, and set
it on the fire in about six quarts of water, with a small piece of lean
ham, three or four blades of mace, the same of cloves, about two dozen
peppercorns, white and black, a small bundle of sweet herbs and parsley,
and a crust of French roll toasted crisp. Cover close, and let it boil
very gently over a slow fire till reduced to one half; then strain it
off, and add a full pint of young green peas, a fine lettuce, cut small,
four heads of celery, washed and cut small, about a quarter of a pound
of fresh butter made hot, with a very little flour dredged into it, and
some more lettuce cut small and thrown in. Just fry it a little; put it
into the soup; cover it close, and let it stew gently over a slow fire
two hours. Have a pint of old peas boiled in a pint of water till they
are very tender, then pulp them through a sieve; add it to the soup, and
let it all boil together, putting in a very little salt. There should be
two quarts. Toast or fry some crust of French roll in dice.


_Green Pea Soup._ No. 2.

Put one quart of old green peas into a gallon of water, with a bunch of
mint, a crust of bread, and two pounds of fresh meat of any sort. When
these have boiled gently for three hours, strain the pulp through a
colander; then fry spinach, lettuce, beet, and green onions, of each a
handful, not too small, in butter, and one pint of green peas, boiled;
pepper and salt. Mix all together, and let them just boil. The spinach
must not be fried brown, but kept green.


_Green Pea Soup._ No. 3.

Boil the shells of your youngest peas in water till all the sweetness is
extracted from them; then strain, and in that liquor boil your peas for
the soup, with whole pepper and salt. When boiled, put them through a
colander; have ready the young peas boiled by themselves; put a good
piece of butter in a frying-pan with some flour, and into that some
lettuce and spinach; fry it till it looks green, and put it into the
soup with the young peas. When the greens are tender, it is done enough.


_Green Pea Soup._ No. 4.

Boil a quart of old peas in five quarts of water, with one onion, till
they are soft; then work them through a sieve.--Put the pulp in the
water in which the peas were boiled, with half a pint of young peas, and
two cabbage lettuces, cut in slices; then let it boil half an hour;
pepper and salt, to your taste.--Add a small piece of butter, mixed with
flour, and one tea-spoonful of loaf sugar.


_Green Pea Soup._ No. 5.

Make a good stock for your soup of beef, mutton, and veal; season to
your palate; let it stand till cold, then take off all the fat. Take
some old peas, boil them in water, with a sprig of mint and a large
lettuce, strain them through a sieve; mix them with your soup till of
proper thickness. Then add three quarters of a pint of cream; simmer it
up together, and have ready half a pint of young peas, or asparagus,
ready boiled to throw in. If the soup is not of a fine green, pound some
spinach, and put in a little of the juice, but not too much.


_Green Pea Soup._ No. 6.

Take a quart of old peas, three or four cabbage lettuces, two heads of
celery, two leeks, one carrot, two or three turnips, two or three old
onions, and a little spinach that has been boiled; put them over the
fire with some good consommé, and let them do gently, till all are very
tender. Rub the whole through a tamis, or hair-sieve; put it in the pot.
Have about half a pint of very young peas, and the hearts of two cabbage
lettuces, cut fine and stewed down in a little broth. Put all together,
with a small faggot of mint, and let it boil gently, skimming it well.
When going to table, put into it fried bread, in dice, or crust of
French roll. This quantity will be sufficient for a terrine.


_Winter Pea Soup._

Take two quarts of old peas, a lettuce, a small bit of savoury, a
handful of spinach, a little parsley, a cucumber, a bit of hock of
bacon; stew all together till tender. Rub the whole through a colander;
add to it some good gravy, and a little cayenne or common pepper. These
quantities will be sufficient for a large terrine. Send it up hot with
fried bread.


_Pea Soup._ No. 1.

Take two pints of peas, one pound of bacon, two bunches of carrots and
onions, two bunches of parsley and thyme; moisten the whole with cold
water, and let them boil for four hours, adding more water to them if
necessary. When quite done, pound them in a mortar, and then rub them
through a sieve with the liquor in which they have been boiling. Add a
quart of the mixed jelly soup, boil it all together, and leave it on a
corner of the fire till served. It must be thick and smooth as melted
butter, and care taken throughout that it does not burn.


_Pea Soup._ No. 2.

Take about three or four pounds of lean beef; cut it in pieces and set
it on the fire in three gallons of water, with nearly one pound of ham,
a small bundle of sweet herbs, another of mint, and forty peppercorns.
Wash a bunch of celery clean, put in the green tops; then add a quart of
split peas. Cover it close, and let the whole boil gently till two parts
out of three are wasted. Strain it off, and work it through a colander;
put it into a clean saucepan with five or six heads of celery, washed
and cut very small; cover it close, and let it stew till reduced to
about three quarts: then cut some fat and lean bacon in dice, fry them
just crisp; do the same by some bread, and put both into the soup.
Season it with salt to your taste. When it is in the terrine, rub a
little dried mint over it. If you chuse it, boil an ox's palate tender,
cut it in dice, and put in, also forcemeat balls.


_Pea Soup._ No. 3.

To a quart of split peas put three quarts of water, two good turnips,
one large head of celery, four onions, one blade of ginger, one spoonful
of flour of mustard, and a small quantity of cayenne, black pepper, and
salt. Let it boil over a slow fire till it is reduced to two quarts;
then work it through a colander with a wooden spoon. Set it on the fire,
and let it boil up; add a quarter of a pound of butter mixed with flour;
beat up the yolks of three eggs, and stir it well in the soup. Gut a
slice of bread into small dice; fry them of a light brown; put them into
your soup-dish, and pour the soup over them.


_Pea Soup._ No. 4.

Boil one onion and one quart of peas in three quarts of water till they
are soft; then work them through a hair sieve. Mix the pulp with the
water in which the peas were boiled; set it over the fire and let it
boil; add two cabbage lettuces, cut in slices, half a pint of young
peas, and a little salt. Let it boil quickly half an hour; mix a little
butter and flour, and boil in the soup.


_Portable Soup._

Strip all the skin and fat off a leg of veal; then cut all the fleshy
parts from the bone, and add a shin of beef, which treat in the same
way; boil it slowly in three gallons of water or more according to the
quantity of the meat; let the pot be closely covered: when you find it,
in a spoon, very strong and clammy, like a rich jelly, take it off and
strain it through a hair sieve into an earthen pan. After it is
thoroughly cold, take off any fat that may remain, and divide your jelly
clear of the bottom into small flatfish cakes in chinaware cups covered.
Then place these cups in a large deep stewpan of boiling water over a
stove fire, where let it boil gently till the jelly becomes a perfect
glue; but take care the water does not get into the cups, for that will
spoil it all. These cups of glue must be taken out, and, when cold, turn
out the glue into a piece of new coarse flannel, and in about six hours
turn it upon more fresh flannel, and keep doing this till it is
perfectly dry--if you then lay it by in a dry warm place, it will
presently become like a dry piece of glue. When you use it in
travelling, take a piece the size of a large walnut, seasoning it with
fresh herbs, and if you can have an old fowl, or a very little bit of
fresh meat, it will be excellent.


_Potato Soup._

Five large carrots, two turnips, three large mealy potatoes, seven
onions, three heads of celery; slice them all thin, with a handful of
sweet herbs; put them into one gallon of water, with bones of beef, or a
piece of mutton; let them simmer gently till the vegetables will pulp
through a sieve. Add cayenne pepper, salt, a pint of milk, or half a
pint of cream, with a small piece of butter beaten up with flour.


_Rabbit Soup._

One large rabbit, one pound of lean ham, one onion, one turnip, and some
celery, two quarts of water; let them boil till the rabbit is tender.
Strain off the liquor; boil a pint of cream, and add it to the best part
of the rabbit pounded; if not of the thickness you wish, add some flour
and butter, and rub it through a sieve. It must not be boiled after the
cream is added.


_Root Soup._

Potatoes, French turnips, English turnips, carrots, celery, of each six
roots; pare and wash them; add three or four onions; set them on the
fire with the bones of a rump of beef, or, if you have no such thing,
about two pounds of beef, or any other beef bones. Chop them up, and put
them on the fire with water enough to cover them; let them stew very
gently till the roots are all tender enough to rub through a sieve. This
done, cut a few roots of celery small, and put it to the strained soup.
Season it with pepper and salt, and stew it gently till the celery is
tender; then serve it with toast or fried bread. A bundle of herbs may
be boiled in it, just to flavour it, and then taken out.


_Scotch Leek Soup._

You make this soup to most advantage the day after a leg of mutton has
been boiled, into the liquor from which put four large leeks, cut in
pieces. Season with pepper and salt, and let it boil gently for a
quarter of an hour. Mix half a pint of oatmeal with cold water till
quite smooth; pour this into the soup; let it simmer gently half an hour
longer; and serve it up.


_To brown or colour Soup._

To brown soup, take two lumps of loaf-sugar in an iron spoon; let it
stand on the stove till it is quite black, and put it into soup.


_Seasoning for Soups and Brown Sauces._

Salt a bullock's liver, pressing it thoroughly with a great weight for
four days. Take ginger and every sort of spice that is used to meat, and
half a pound of brown sugar, a good quantity of saltpetre, and a pound
of juniper-berries. Rub the whole in thoroughly, and let it lie six
weeks in the liquor, boiling and skimming every three days, for an hour
or two, till the liver becomes as hard as a board. Then steep it in the
smoke liquor that is used for hams, and afterwards hang it up to smoke
for a considerable time. When used, cut slices as thin as a wafer, and
stew them down with the jelly of which you make your sauce or soup, and
it will give a delightful flavour.


_Soup._ No. 1.

A quarter of a pound of portable soup, that is, one cake, in two quarts
of boiling water; vegetables to be stewed separately, and added after
the soup is dissolved.


_Soup._ No. 2.

Take a piece of beef about a stone weight, and a knuckle of veal, eight
or ten onions, a bunch of thyme and parsley, an ounce of allspice, ten
cloves, some whole pepper and salt; boil all these till the meat is all
to pieces. Strain and take off the fat. Make about a quart of brown beef
gravy with some of your broth; then take half a pound of butter and a
good handful of flour mixed together, put it into a stewpan, set it
over a slow fire, keeping it stirring till very brown; have ready what
herbs you design for your soup, either endive or celery; chop them, but
not too small; if you wish for a fine soup add a palate and sweetbreads,
the palate boiled tender, and the sweetbreads fried, and both cut into
small pieces. Put these, with herbs, into brown butter; put in as much
of your broth as you intend for your soup, which must be according to
the size of your dish. Give them a boil or two, then put in a quart of
your gravy, and put all in a pot, with a fowl, or what you intend to put
in your dish. Cover it close, and, let it boil an hour or more on a slow
fire. Should it not be seasoned enough, add more salt, or what you think
may be necessary: a fowl, or partridge, or squab pigeons, are best
boiled in soup and to lie in the dish with it.


_Soup._ No. 3.

Cut three pounds of beef and one pound of veal in slices and beat it.
Put half a pound of butter and a piece of bacon in your pan, brown it,
and sprinkle in half a spoonful of flour. Cut two onions in; add pepper
and salt, a bit of mace, and some herbs, then put in your meat, and fry
it till it is brown on both sides. Have in readiness four quarts of
boiling water, and a saucepan that will hold both water and what is in
your frying-pan. Cover it close; set it over a slow fire and stew it
down, till it is wasted to about five pints; then strain it off, and add
to it what soup-herbs you like, according to your palate. Celery and
endive must be first stewed in butter; and peas and asparagus first
boiled, and well drained from the butter, before you put it to the soup.
Stew it some time longer, and skim off all the fat; then take a French
roll, which put in your soup-dish; pour in your soup, and serve it up.
Just before you take it off the fire, squeeze in the juice of a lemon.

If veal alone is used, and fowl or chicken boiled in it and taken out
when enough done, and the liquor strained, and the fowl or chicken put
to the clear liquor, with vermicelli, you will have a fine white soup;
and the addition of the juice of a lemon is a great improvement.

The French cooks put in chervil and French turnips, lettuce, sorrel,
parsley, beets, a little bit of carrot, a little of parsnips, this last
must not boil too long--all to be strained off: to be sent up with
celery, endive (or peas) or asparagus, and stuffed cucumbers.


_Soup without Meat._

Take two quarts of water, a little pepper, salt, and Jamaica pepper, a
blade of mace, ten or twelve cloves, three or four onions, a crust of
bread, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil all these well. Take the white
of two or three heads of endive, chopped, but not too small. Put three
quarters of a pound of butter in a stewpan that will be large enough to
hold all your liquor. Set it on a quick fire till it becomes very brown;
then put a little of your liquor to prevent its turning, or oiling;
shake in as much flour as will make it rather thick; then put in the
endive and an onion shred small, stirring it well. Strain all your
liquor, and put it to the butter and herbs; let it stew over a slow fire
almost an hour. Dry a French roll, and let it remain in it till it is
soaked through, and lay it in your dish with the soup. You may make this
soup with asparagus, celery, or green peas, but they must be boiled
before you put them to the burnt butter.


_Soup for the Poor._

Eight pails of water, two quarts of barley, four quarts of split peas,
one bushel of potatoes, half a bushel of turnips, half a bushel of
carrots, half a peck of onions, one ounce of pepper, two pounds of salt,
an ox's head, parsley, herbs, boiled six hours, produce one hundred and
thirty pints. Boil the meat and take off the first scum before the other
ingredients are put in.


_Another._

To feed one hundred and thirty persons, take five quarts of Scotch
barley, one quart of Scotch oatmeal, one bushel of potatoes, a bullock's
head, onions, &c., one pound and half of salt.


_Soup and Bouilli_

may be made of ox-cheek, stewed gently for some hours, and well skimmed
from the fat, and again when cold. Small suet dumplings are added when
heated for table as soup.


_Soupe à la Reine, or Queen's Soup._

Soak a knuckle of veal and part of a neck of mutton in water; put them
in a pot with liquor, carrots, turnips, thyme, parsley, and onions. Boil
and scum it; then season with a head or two of celery; boil this down;
take half a pound of blanched almonds, and beat them; take two fowls,
half roasted, two sweetbreads set off; beat these in a mortar, put them
in your stock, with the crumbs of two French rolls; then rub them
through a tamis and serve up.


_Another._

For a small terrine take about three quarters of a pound of almonds;
blanch, and pound them very fine. Cut up a fowl, leaving the breast
whole, and stew in consommé. When the breast is tender, take it out,
(leaving the other parts to stew with the consommé) pound it well with
the almonds and three hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and take it out of the
mortar. Strain the consommé, and put it, when the fat is skimmed off, to
the almonds, &c. Have about a quarter of a pint of Scotch barley boiled
very tender, add it to the other ingredients, put them into a pot with
the consommé, and stir it over the fire till it is boiling hot and well
mixed. Rub it through a tamis, and season it with a little salt; it must
not boil after being rubbed through.


_Soupe Maigre._ No. 1.

Take the white part of eight loaved lettuces, cut them as small as dice,
wash them and strain them through a sieve. Pick a handful of purslain
and half a handful of parsley, wash and drain them. Cut up six large
cucumbers in slices about the thickness of a crown-piece. Peel and mince
four large onions, and have in readiness three pints of young green
peas. Put half a pound of fresh butter into your stewpan; brown it of a
high colour, something like that of beef gravy. Put in two ounces of
lean bacon cut clean from the rind, add all your herbs, peas, and
cucumbers, and thirty corns of whole pepper; let these stew together for
ten minutes; keep stirring to prevent burning. Put one gallon of boiling
water to a gallon of small broth, and a French roll cut into four pieces
toasted of a fine yellow brown. Cover your stewpan, and let it again
stew for two hours. Add half a drachm of beaten mace, one clove beaten,
and half a grated nutmeg, and salt to your taste. Let it boil up, and
squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Send it to table with all the bread and
the herbs that were stewed in it.


_Soupe Maigre._ No. 2.

Take of every vegetable you can get, excepting cabbage, in such quantity
as not to allow any one to predominate; cut them small and fry them
brown in butter; add a little water, and thicken with flour and butter.
Let this stew three hours very gently; and season to your taste. The
French add French rolls.


_Soupe Maigre._ No. 3.

Half a pound of butter, put in a stewpan over the fire, and let it
brown. Cut two or three onions in slices, two or three heads of celery,
two handfuls of spinach, a cabbage, two turnips, a little parsley, three
cabbage lettuces, a little spice, pepper and salt. Stew all these about
half an hour; then add about two quarts of water, and let it simmer till
all the roots are tender. Put in the crust of a French roll, and send
it to table.


_Soupe Maigre._ No. 4.

Cut three carrots, three turnips, three heads of celery, three leeks,
six onions, and two cabbage lettuces in small pieces; put them in your
stewpan with a piece of butter, the size of an egg, a pint of dried or
green peas, and two quarts of water, with a little pepper and salt.
Simmer the whole over the fire till tender; then rub it through a sieve
or tamis; add some rice, and let it simmer an hour before you serve it
up.


_Soupe Maigre._ No. 5.

Take three carrots, three turnips, three heads of celery, three leeks,
six onions, two cabbage lettuces; cut them all in small pieces, and put
them in your stewpan, with a piece of butter about the size of an egg,
and a pint of dried or green peas, and two quarts of water. Simmer them
over the fire till tender, then rub through a sieve or tamis. Add some
rice, and let it simmer an hour before you serve it up.


_Soupe Santé, or Wholesome Soup._

Take beef and veal cut in thin slices; put sliced turnips, carrots,
onions, bacon, in the bottom of your stewpan; lay your meat upon these,
and over it some thin thyme, parsley, a head or two of celery. Cover the
whole down; set it over a charcoal fire; draw it down till it sticks to
the bottom; then fill up with the above stock. Let it boil slowly till
the goodness is extracted from your meat; then strain it off. Cut and
wash some celery, endive, sorrel, a little chervil, spinach, and a piece
of leek; put these in a stewpan, with a bit of butter. Stew till tender,
then put this in your soup; give it a boil up together, and skim the fat
off. Cut off the crust of French rolls; dry and soak them in some of
your soup; put them into it, and serve your soup.


_Spanish Soup._

Put the scrag end of a neck of veal, two calves' feet, two pounds of
fresh beef, one old fowl, into a pot well tinned, with six quarts of
water, and a little salt, to raise the scum, which must be very
carefully taken off. Let these boil very gently two hours and a half,
till the water is reduced to four quarts; then take out all the meat,
strain the broth, and put to it a small quantity of pepper, mace,
cloves, and cinnamon, finely pounded, with four or five cloves of
garlic. A quarter of an hour afterwards add eight or ten ounces of rice,
with six ounces of ham or bacon, and a drachm of saffron put into a
muslin bag. Observe to keep it often stirred after the rice is in, till
served up. It will be ready an hour and a half after the saffron is in.
You should put a fowl into it an hour before it is ready, and serve it
up whole in the soup.

This soup will keep two or three days.


_Turnip Soup._

Make a good strong gravy of beef or mutton; let it stand till cold; take
off all the fat; pare some turnips and slice them thin; stew them till
tender, then strain them through a sieve; mix the pulp with the gravy,
till of a proper thickness:--then add three quarters of a pint of cream;
boil it up, and send it to table.


_Veal Soup._

Take a knuckle of veal, and chop it into small pieces; set it on the
fire with four quarts of water, pepper, mace, a few herbs, and one large
onion. Stew it five or six hours; then strain off the spice, and put in
a pint of green peas until tender. Take out the small bones, and send
the rest up with the soup.


_Vegetable Soup._ No. 1.

Take a quart of beef jelly and the same quantity of veal jelly: boil it,
have some carrots and turnips, cut small, previously boiled in a little
of the jelly; throw them in, and serve it up hot.


_Vegetable Soup._ No. 2.

Take two cabbage and two coss lettuces, one hard cabbage, six onions,
one large carrot, two turnips, three heads of celery, a little tarragon,
chervil, parsley, and thyme, chopped fine, and a little flour fried in a
quarter of a pound of butter (or less will do). Then add three quarts of
boiling water; boil it for two hours, stir it well, and add, before
sending it to table, some crumbs of stale bread: the upper part of the
loaf is best.


_Vegetable Soup._ No. 3.

Let a quantity of dried peas (split peas), or haricots, (lentils) be
boiled in common water till they are quite tender; let them then be
gradually passed through a sieve with distilled water, working the
mixture with a wooden spoon, to make what the French call a _puré_: and
let it be made sufficiently liquid with distilled water to bear boiling
down. Then let a good quantity of fresh vegetables, of any or all kinds
in their season, especially carrots, lettuces, turnips, celery, spinach,
with always a few onions, be cut into fine shreds, and put it into
common boiling water for three or four minutes to blanch; let them then
be taken out with a strainer, added to and mixed with the _puré_, and
the whole set to boil gently at the fire for at least two hours. A few
minutes before taking the soup from the fire, let it be seasoned to the
taste with pepper and salt.

The soup, when boiling gently at the fire, should be very frequently
stirred, to prevent its sticking to the side of the pan, and acquiring a
burnt taste.


_Vegetable Soup._ No. 4.

Cut two potatoes, one turnip, two heads of celery, two onions, one
carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs; put them all into a stewpan; cover
close; draw them gently for twenty minutes, then put two quarts of good
broth, let it boil gently, and afterwards simmer for two hours. Strain
through a fine sieve; put it into your pan again; season with pepper and
salt, and let it boil up.


_Vegetable Soup._ No. 5.

Take four turnips, two potatoes, three onions, three heads of celery,
two carrots, four cabbage lettuces, a bunch of sweet herbs, and parsley.
The vegetables must be cut in slices; put them into a stewpan, with half
a pint of water; cover them close; set them over the fire for twenty
minutes to draw; add three pints of broth or water, and let it boil
quickly. When the vegetables are tender rub them through a sieve. If you
make the soup with water, add butter, flour, pepper, and salt. Let it be
of the thickness of good cream, and add some fine crumbs of bread with
small dumplings.


_Vermicelli Soup._

Break the vermicelli a little, throw it into boiling water, and let it
boil about two minutes. Strain it in a sieve, and throw it into cold
water: then strain and put it into a good clear consommé, and let it
boil very slowly about a quarter of an hour. When it is going to table,
season with a little salt, and put into it a little crust of French
roll.


_West India Soup, called Pepper Pot._

A small knuckle of veal and a piece of beef of about three pounds, seven
or eight pounds of meat in all; potherbs as for any other soup. When the
soup is skimmed and made, strain it off. The first ingredient you add to
the soup must be some dried ocre (a West India vegetable), the quantity
according to your judgment. It is hard and dry, and therefore requires
a great deal of soaking and boiling. Then put in the spawn of the
lobsters you intend for your soup, first pounding it very fine, and
mixing it by degrees with a little of your soup cooled, or it will be
lumpy, and not so smooth as it should be. Put it into the soup-pot, and
continue to stir some time after it is in. Take about two middling
handfuls of spinach and about six hearts of the inside of very nice
greens; scald both greens and spinach before you put them to the soup,
to take off the rawness; the greens require most scalding. Squeeze them
quite dry, chop and put them into the soup; then add all the fat and
inside egg and spawn you can get from the lobsters, also the meat out of
the tails and claws. Add the green tops only of a large bundle of
asparagus, of the sort which they call sprew-grass, previously scalded;
a few green peas also are very good. After these ingredients are in, the
soup should no more than simmer; and when the herbs are sufficiently
tender it is done enough. This soup is not to be clear, on the contrary
thick with the lobster, and a perfect mash with the lobster and greens.
You are to put in lobster to your liking; I generally put in five or
six, at least of that part of them which is called fat, egg, and inside
spawn, sufficient to make it rich and good. It should look quite yellow
with this. Put plenty of the white part also, and in order that none of
the goodness of the lobsters should be lost, take the shells of those
which you have used, bruise them in a mortar, and boil them in some of
the broth, to extract what goodness remains; then strain off the liquor
and add it to the rest. Scoop some potatoes round, half boiling them
first, and put into it. Season with red pepper. Put in a piece of nice
pickled pork, which must be first scalded, for fear of its being too
salt; stew it with the rest and serve it.


_White Soup._ No. 1.

Take two chickens; skin them; take out the lungs and wash them
thoroughly; put them in a stewpan with some parsley. Add a quart of veal
jelly, and stew them in this for one hour over a very slow fire. Then
take out the chickens, and put a penny roll to soak in the liquor; take
all the flesh of the chickens from the bones, and pound it in a mortar,
with the yolk of three eggs boiled hard. Add the bread (when soaked
enough) and pound it also with them; then rub the whole finely through a
sieve. Add a quart more jelly to the soup, and strain it through a
sieve; then put the chicken to the soup. Set a quart of cream on the
fire till it boils, stirring it all the time; when ready to serve, pour
that into the soup and mix it well together. Have ready a little
vermicelli, boiled in a little weak broth, to throw into the soup, when
put into the terrine.


_White Soup._ No. 2.

Have good stock made of veal and beef; then take about a pound of veal,
and the like quantity of ham, cut both into thin slices, and put them
into a stewpan, with a pint of water and two onions cut small. Set it on
the fire and stew it down gently, till it is quite dry, and of a rather
light brown colour; then add the stock, and let it all stew till the
veal and ham are quite tender. Strain it off into the stewpot; add a
gill or more of cream, some blanched rice boiled tender, the quantity to
your own judgment, the yolks of six eggs beaten up well with a little
new milk: let the soup be boiling hot before the eggs are added, which
put to it by degrees, keeping it stirring over a slow fire. Serve it
very hot: to prevent curdling, put the soup-pot into a large pot of
boiling water, taking care that not the least drop of water gets in, and
so make it boiling hot.


_White Soup._ No. 3.

Cut one pound of veal, or half a fowl, into small pieces; put to it a
few sweet herbs, a crust of bread, an ounce of pearl barley well washed.
Set it over a slow fire, closely covered; let it boil till half is
consumed; then strain it and take off the fat. Have ready an ounce of
sweet almonds blanched, pound them in a marble mortar, adding a little
soup to prevent their oiling. Mix all together. When you send it up, add
one third of new milk or cream, salt and pepper to taste.


_White Soup._ No. 4.

Take a knuckle of veal, and put water according to the quantity of soup
you require; let it boil up and skim it; then put in three ounces of
lean bacon or ham, with two heads of celery, one carrot, one turnip, two
onions, and three or four blades of mace, and boil for three or four
hours. When properly boiled, strain it off, taking care to skim off all
the fat; then put into it two ounces of rice, well boiled, half a pint
of cream beaten up, and five or six yolks of eggs. When ready to serve,
pour the soup to the eggs backward and forward to prevent it from
curdling, and send it to table. You must boil the soup once after you
add the cream, and before you put it to the eggs. Three laurel leaves
put into it in summer and six in winter make a pleasant addition,
instead of sweet almonds.


_White Soup._ No. 5.

Make your stock with veal and chicken, and beat half a pound of almonds
in a mortar very fine, with the breast of a fowl. Put in some white
broth, and strain off. Stove it gently, and poach eight eggs, and lay in
your soup, with a French roll in the middle, filled with minced chicken
or veal, and serve very hot.


_White Soup._ No. 6.

Take a knuckle of veal; stew it with celery, herbs, slices of ham, and a
little cayenne and white pepper; season it to your taste. When it is
cleared off, add one pound of sweet almonds, a pint of cream, and the
yolks of eight eggs, boiled hard and finely bruised. Mix these all
together in your soup; let it just boil, and send it up hot. You may add
a French roll; let it be nicely browned.

The ingredients here mentioned will make four quarts.


_White Soup._ No. 7.

Stock from a boiled knuckle of veal, thickened with about two ounces of
sweet almonds, beaten to a paste, with a spoonful of water to prevent
their oiling; a large slice of dressed veal, and a piece of crumb of
bread, soaked in good milk, pounded and rubbed through a sieve; a bit of
fresh lemon-peel and a blade of mace in the finest powder. Boil all
together about half an hour, and stir in about a pint of cream without
boiling.




BROTHS.


_Broth for the Poor._

A good wholesome broth may be made at a very reasonable rate to feed the
poor in the country. The following quantities would furnish a good meal
for upwards of fifty persons.

Take twenty pounds of the very coarse parts of beef, five pounds of
whole rice, thirteen gallons of water; boil the meat in the water first,
and skim it very well; then put in the rice, some turnips, carrots,
leeks, celery, thyme, parsley, and a good quantity of potatoes; add a
good handful of salt, and boil them all together till tender.


_Another._

Four hundred quarts of good broth for the poor may be made as
follows:--Good beef, fifty pounds weight; beeves' cheeks, and legs of
beef, five; rice, thirty pounds; peas, twenty-three quarts; black
pepper, five ounces and a half; cayenne pepper, half an ounce; ground
ginger, two ounces; onions, thirteen pounds; salt, seven pounds and a
half; with celery, leeks, carrots, dried mint, and any other vegetable.


_Broth for the Sick._ No. 1.

Boil one ounce of very lean veal, fifteen minutes in a little butter,
and then add half a pint of water; set it over a very slow fire, with a
spoonful of barley and a piece of gum arabic about the size of a nut.


_Broth for the Sick._ No. 2.

Put a leg of beef and a scrag of mutton cut in pieces into three or four
gallons of water, and let them boil twelve hours, occasionally stirring
them well; and cover close. Strain the broth, and let it stand till it
will form a jelly; then take the fat from the top and the dross from the
bottom.


_Broth for the sick._ No. 3.

Take twelve quarts of water, two knuckles of veal, a leg of beef, or two
shins, four calves' feet, a chicken, a rabbit, two onions, cloves,
pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover close, and let the whole
boil till reduced to six quarts. Strain and keep it for use.


_Barley Broth._

Take four or five pounds of the lean end of a neck of mutton, soak it
well in cold water for some time, then put it in a saucepan with about
four quarts of water and a tea-cupful of fine barley. Just before it
boils take it off the fire and skim it extremely well; put in salt and
pepper to your taste, and a small bundle of sweet herbs, which take out
before the broth is sent up. Then let it boil very gently for some hours
afterwards; add turnips, carrots, and onions, cut in small pieces, and
continue to boil the broth till the vegetables are quite done and very
tender. When nearly done it requires to be stirred frequently lest the
barley should adhere.


_Another._

Put on whatever bones you have; stew them down well with a little whole
pepper, onions, and herbs. When done, strain it off, and next day take
off all the fat. Take a little pearl barley, boil it a little and strain
it off; put it to the broth, add a coss lettuce, carrot, and turnip, cut
small. Boil all together some time, and serve it up.


_Chervil Broth for Cough._

Boil a calf's liver and two large handfuls of chervil in four quarts of
spring water till reduced to one quart. Strain it, and take a
coffee-cupful night and morning.


_Hodge-Podge._

Stew a scrag of mutton: put in a peck of peas, a bunch of turnips cut
small, a few carrots, onions, lettuce, and some parsley. When
sufficiently boiled add a few mutton chops, which must stew gently till
done.


_Leek Porridge._

Peel twelve leeks; boil them in water till tender; take them out and put
them into a quart of new milk; boil them well; thicken up with oatmeal,
and add salt according to the taste.


_Madame de Maillet's Broth._

Two ounces of veal, six carrots, two turnips, one table-spoonful of gum
arabic, one table-spoonful of rice, two quarts of water; simmer for
about two hours.


_Mutton Broth._

The bone of a leg of mutton to be chopped small, and put into the
stewpan with vegetables and herbs, together with a little drop of water,
and drawn as gravy soup; add boiling water.


_Pork Broth._

Take a leg of pork fresh cut up; beat it and break the bone; put it into
three gallons of soft water, with half an ounce of mace and the same
quantity of nutmeg. Let it boil very gently over a slow fire, until two
thirds of the water are consumed. Strain the broth through a fine sieve,
and when it is cold take off the fat. Drink a large cupful in the
morning fasting, and between meals, and just before going to bed,
warmed. Season it with a little salt. This is a fine restorative.


_Potage._

Boil a leg of beef, and a knuckle of veal, with a bunch of sweet herbs,
a little mace and whole pepper, and a handful of salt. When the meat is
boiled to rags or to a very strong broth, strain it through a hair
sieve, and when it is cold, take off the fat. With raw beef make a gravy
thus: cut your beef in pieces, put them in a frying-pan with a piece of
butter or a slice of bacon, fry it very brown, then put it to some of
your strong broth, and when it grows browner and thick till it becomes
reduced to three pints of gravy, fill up your strong broth to boil with
a piece of butter and a handful of sweet herbs. Afterwards a chicken
must be boiled and blanched and cut in slices; and two or three
sweetbreads fried very brown; a turnip also sliced and fried. Boil all
these half an hour, and put them in the dish in which you intend to
serve up, with three French rolls (cut in halves) and set it over a fire
with a quart of your gravy, and some of your broth, covered with a dish,
till it boils very fast, and as it reduces fill up with your broth till
your bread is quite soaked. You may put into the dish either a duck,
pigeon, or any bird you please; but whichever you choose, roast it
first, and then let it boil in the dish with your bread. This may be
made a pea soup, by only rubbing peas through a sieve.


_Scotch Pottage._

Place a tin saucepan on the fire with some boiling water; stir in Scotch
oatmeal till it is of the desired consistence: when done, pour it in a
basin and add milk or cream to it. It is more nutritious to make it of
milk instead of water, if the stomach will bear it. The Scotch peasantry
live entirely on this strengthening food. The best Scotch oatmeal is to
be bought at Dudgeon's, in the Strand.


_Scotch Broth._

Boil very tender a piece of thin brisket of beef, with trimmings of any
other meat, or a piece of gravy beef; cut it into square pieces; strain
off the broth and put it in a soup-pot; add the beef, cut in squares,
with plenty of carrots, turnips, celery, and onions, cut in shapes and
well boiled before put to the broth, and, if liked, some very small suet
dumplings first boiled. Season it to your palate.


_Turnip Broth._

Have a sufficient quantity of good strong broth as for any other soup,
taking care that it is not too strongly flavoured by any of the roots
introduced into it. Peel a good quantity of the best turnips, selecting
such as are not bitter. Sweat them in butter and a little water till
they are quite tender. Rub them through a tamis, mix them with the
broth; boil it for about half an hour. Add half a pint of very good
cream, and be careful not to have too fierce a fire, as it is apt to
burn.


_Another._

Put one pound of lean veal, pulled into small pieces in a pipkin, with
two large or three middling turnips. Cover the pipkin very close, to
prevent water from getting into it; set it in a pot of water, and let it
boil for two or three hours. A tea-cupful of the broth produced in the
pipkin may be taken twice or thrice a day.


_Veal Broth._ No. 1.

Take ten or twelve knuckles, such as are cut off from legs and shoulders
of mutton, at the very shank; rub them with a little salt, put them in a
pan of water for two or three hours, and wash them very clean; boil them
in a gallon of spring water for an hour. Strain them very clean, then
put in two ounces of hartshorn shavings, and the bottom crust of a penny
loaf; let it boil till the water is reduced to about three pints; strain
it off, and when cold skim off the fat. Take half a pint warm before you
rise, and the same in bed at night. Make it fresh three times a week in
summer, and twice a week in winter: do not put in any lamb bones. This
is an excellent thing.


_Veal Broth._ No. 2.

Soak a knuckle of veal for an hour in cold water; put it into fresh
water over the fire, and, as the scum rises, take it off; let it stew
gently for two hours, with a little salt to make the scum rise. When it
is sufficiently stewed, strain the broth from the meat. Put in some
vermicelli; keep the meat hot; and as you are going to put the soup into
the terrine add half a pint of cream.


_Veal Broth._ No. 3.

Take one pound of lean veal, one blade of mace, two table-spoonfuls of
rice, one quart of water; let it boil slowly two hours; add a little
salt.


_Veal Broth._ No. 4.--_Excellent for a Consumption._

Boil a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water; skim and put to it half a
pound of raisins of the sun, stoned, and the bottoms of two manchets,
with a nutmeg and a half sliced, and a little hartshorn. Let it boil
till reduced to half the quantity; then pound it all together and
strain. Add some brown sugar-candy, some rose-water, and also the juice
of a lemon, if the patient has no cough.




FISH.


_Carp and Tench._

Scale the fish, take out the gut and gall; save all the blood. Split the
carp if large; cut it in large pieces, and salt it. Boil some sliced
parsley roots and onions tender in half a pint of water, adding a little
cayenne pepper, ginger, cloves, and allspice, a lemon sliced, a little
vinegar, and moist sugar, one glass of red wine, and some butter rolled
in flour. Then put in the fish, and let it boil very fast for half an
hour in a stewpan. The blood is to be put in the sauce.


_Carp, to stew._

Scale, gut, and cleanse them; save the roes and milts; stew them in some
good broth: season, to your taste, with a bundle of herbs, onions,
anchovies, and white wine; and, when they are stewed enough, thicken the
sauce with the yolks of five eggs. Pass off the roes, dip them in yolk
of egg and flour, and fry them with some sippets of French bread; then
fry a little parsley, and, when you serve up, garnish the dish with the
roes, parsley, and sippets.


_Another way._

Have your carp fresh out of the water; scale and gut them, washing the
blood out of each fish with a little claret; and save that after so
doing. Cut your carp in pieces, and stew in a little fresh butter, a few
blades of mace, winter savory, a little thyme, and three or four onions;
after stewing awhile, take them out, put them by, and fold them up in
linen, till the liquor is ready to receive them again, as the fish would
otherwise be boiled to pieces before the liquor was reduced to a proper
thickness. When you have taken out your fish, put in the claret that you
washed out the blood with, and a pint of beef or mutton gravy,
according to the quantity of your fish, with some salt and the butter in
which you stewed the carp; and when this butter is almost boiled to a
proper thickness put in your fish again; stew all together, and serve it
up. Two spoonfuls of elder vinegar to the liquor when taken up will give
a very agreeable taste.


_Cod, to stew._

Cut a cod into thin pieces or slices; lay them in rows at the bottom of
a dish; put in a pint of white wine, half a pound of butter, a few
oysters, with their liquor, a little pepper and salt, with some crumbs
of bread. Stew them all till they are done enough. Garnish the dish with
lemon.


_Cod, Ragout of._

Wash the cod clean, and boil it in warm water, with vinegar, pepper,
salt, a bay-leaf, and lemon. Make a sauce of burnt butter, fried flour,
capers, and oysters. When you serve it up put in some black pepper and
lemon-juice.


_Cod's Head, to boil._

Take vinegar and salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion; set them on
the fire in a kettle of water; boil them and put in the head; and, while
it is boiling, put in cold water and vinegar. When boiled, take it up,
put it into a dish, and make sauce as follows:--Take gravy and claret,
boiled with a bundle of sweet herbs and an onion, two or three
anchovies, drawn with two pounds of butter, a pint of shrimps, oysters,
the meat of a lobster shred fine. You may stick little toasts on the
head, and lay on and about the roe, milt, and liver. Garnish the dish
with fried parsley, lemon, barberries, horseradish, and fried fish.


_Crab, to dress._

Take all the body and the meat of the legs, and put them together in a
dish to heat, with a little broth or gravy, just to make them moist.
When hot, have ready some good broth or gravy, with an anchovy dissolved
in it, and the juice of a small lemon, heated; afterwards thicken it up
with butter, and stir it in the crab, as it is, hot: then serve all up
in the shell.


_Crab or Lobster, to butter._

The crabs or lobsters being boiled and cold, take all the meat out of
the shells and body; break the claws and take out the meat. Shred it
small; add a spoonful or two of claret, a little vinegar, and a grated
nutmeg. Let it boil up till it is thoroughly hot; then put in some
melted butter, with anchovies and white gravy; thicken with the yolk of
an egg or two, and when very hot put it into the large shell. Put crumbs
of bread over it, and brown it with a salamander.


_Crab, or Lobster, to stew._ No. 1.

A little cayenne, vinegar, butter, flour, and salt. Cover it with water
and let it stew gently.


_Crab, or Lobster, to stew._ No. 2.

When the lobsters are boiled, take out the tail and claws, and dip them
in white wine; strew over them nutmeg, cloves, mace, salt, and pepper,
mixed together. Then pour over them some melted butter with a little
white wine in it; send them to the bakehouse, and let them stand in a
slow oven about half an hour. Pour out the butter and wine, and pour on
some fresh butter; when cold, cover them, and keep them in a cold place.


_Crab, or Lobster, to stew._ No. 3.

Boil the lobsters; when cold take out all the meat; season it well with
pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace pounded. Put it into an earthen pot with
as much clarified butter as will cover it; bake it well. While warm,
take it out of the pot, and let the butter drain from it. Break it as
fine as you can with a spoon or knife; add more seasoning if required;
put it as close as possible in the pot, and cover with clarified butter.
The hen lobsters are best for this purpose, as the eggs impart a good
colour. It may be pounded in a marble mortar, but, if baked enough, will
do as well without it.


_Crawfish, to make red._

Rub the fish with aqua vitæ, which will produce the desired effect most
completely.


_Eels broiled whole._

Skin, wash, and dry your eels, and score them with the knife, seasoning
them with pepper, salt, thyme, parsley, and crumbs of bread, turning
them round and skewering them across; you may either roast or broil them
as you like best: the sauce to be melted butter with lemon juice.


_Eels, to collar._

Scour large silver eels with salt; slit them, and take out the
back-bones; wash and dry them; season with shred parsley, sage, an
onion, and thyme. Then roll each into collars, in a cloth; tie them
close with the heads, bones, and a bundle of herbs, and boil them in
salt and water. When tender, take them up, and again tie them close;
drain the pickle, and put them into it.


_Eels, to fry._

Cut every eel into eight pieces; mix them with a proper quantity of
yolks of eggs, and well season with pepper, and salt, and bread rubbed
fine, with parsley and thyme; then flour them, and fry them. You may
cook them as plain as you like, with only salt and flour, and serve them
up with melted butter and fried parsley.


_Eels, to pot._

Into an earthen pan put Jamaica and common pepper, pounded fine, and
salt; mix them and strew some at the bottom of the pan; cut your eels
and lay them over it, and strew a little more seasoning over them. Then
put in another layer of eels, repeating this process till all the eels
are in. Lay a few bay leaves upon them, and pour as much vinegar as you
may think requisite; cover the pan with brown paper and bake them. Pour
off the liquor, cover them with clarified butter, and lay them by for
use.


_Eels, to pickle._

Drain, wash, and well cleanse your eels, and cut off the heads. Cut them
in lengths of four or five inches, with their skins on; stew in them
some pepper and salt, and broil them on a gridiron a fine colour: then
put them in layers in a jar, with bay-leaf, pepper, salt, a few slices
of lemon, and a few cloves. Pour some good vinegar on them; tie strong
paper over, and prick a few holes in it. It is better to boil the
seasoning with some sweet herbs in the vinegar, and let it stand to be
cold before it is put over the eels. Two yolks of eggs boiled hard
should be put in the vinegar with a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard.
Two yolks are sufficient for twelve pounds of eels.


_Eels, to roast._

Skin your eels; turn, scotch, and wash them with melted butter; skewer
them crosswise; fix them on the spit, and put over them a little pepper,
salt, parsley, and thyme; roast them quick. Fry some parsley, and lay it
round the dish; make your sauce of butter and gravy.


_Eels, to spitchcock._

Leave the skin on the eels; scour them with salt; wash them; cut off
their heads and slit them on the belly side; take out the bone and guts.
Wash and wipe them well; cut them in pieces three inches long, and wipe
them quite dry. Put two ounces of butter, with a little minced parsley,
thyme, sage, pepper and salt, and a little chopped shalot, in a stewpan;
when the butter is melted, stir the ingredients together, and take the
pan off the fire; mix the yolks of two eggs with them and dip the eels
in, a piece at a time; then roll them in bread crumbs, making as much
stick on as you can. Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet; set it over a
clear fire, and broil your eels of a fine crisp brown; dust them with
crisp parsley. Sauce, anchovy and butter, or plain butter in a boat.


_Another way._

Wash your eels well in their skins with salt and water; dry and slit
them; take out the back-bone, and slash them: season them with chopped
parsley, thyme, salt, and pepper. Clean the inside with melted butter;
cut them into pieces about three inches long and broil them; make the
sauce with butter and orange juice.


_Eels, to stew._

Take five pounds of middling shafflings, cut off their heads, skin, and
cut them in pieces as long as your finger. Wash them in several waters;
dry them well with a cloth, lay them in a pan, sprinkle over them half
an ounce of white salt, and let them lie an hour. Lay them in a stewpan,
and add half a pint of French white wine, a quarter of a pint of water,
two cloves beaten, a blade of mace, a large onion peeled, and the rind
of a lemon; stew all these gently half an hour: then take the eels out
of the liquor, skim off all the fat, and flour the eels all over; put to
the liquor in which they were stewed an anchovy, washed and boned, and
mix sorrel and parsley, half a handful of each, and half a pound of
fresh butter. Let it just boil up; put in the eels; when they boil, lay
them on sippets in your dish, and send them up hot to table.


_Another way._

Cover the fish close in a stewpan with a piece of butter as big as a
walnut rolled in flour, and let it stew till done enough, which you will
know by the eels being very tender. Take them up and lay them on a dish;
strain your sauce, and give it a quick boil and pour it over the fish.
Garnish with lemon.


_Fish, to recover when tainted._

When fish of any kind is tainted plunge it in cold milk, which will
render it sweet again.


_Fish, in general, to dress._

Take water, salt, half a pint of vinegar, a sprig of thyme, a small
onion, and a little lemon peel; boil them all together, then put in your
fish, and when done enough take them out, drain them well, and lay them
over a stove to keep hot.

If you fry fish, strew some crumbs of grated bread very fine over them,
and fry them in sweet oil; then drain them well and keep them hot.


_Fish, to dress in Sauce._

Cut off the heads, tails, and fins, of two or three haddocks or other
small fish; stew them in a quart of water, with a little spice and
anchovy, and a bunch of sweet herbs, for a quarter of an hour; and then
skim. Roll a bit of butter in flour, and thicken the liquor; put down
the fish, and stew them with a little chopped parsley, and cloves, or
onions.


_Fish hashed in Paste._

Cut the fish into dice about three quarters of an inch square; prepare
white sauce the same as for fowls, leaving out the mushrooms and
truffles; add a little anchovy sauce to give it a good colour, and a
pinch of cayenne pepper and salt. When the sauce is done, throw in the
dice of fish, and when thoroughly hot serve it.

There should be a little more butter in the sauce than is commonly used
in the white sauce for fowls.


_Fish, to Cavietch._

Cut the fish into slices, season them with pepper and salt, and let them
lie for an hour; dry them well with a cloth, flour and fry them brown in
oil: boil a quantity of vinegar proportionate to that of the fish to be
prepared: cover the fish with slices of garlic and some whole pepper and
mace; add the same quantity of oil as vinegar, mix them well together,
and salt to your taste. When the fish and liquor are quite cold, slice
onions and lay at the bottom of the pan; then put a layer of fish, and
so on, till the whole is in. The liquor must be cold before it is poured
on the fish.


_Gudgeon._

Dress as you would smelts.


_Haddocks, to bake._

Bone two or three haddocks, and lay them in a deep pan with pepper,
salt, butter and flour, and two or three anchovies, and sufficient water
to cover them. Cover the pan close for an hour, which is required to
bake them, and serve them in the saucepan.


_Haddock baked._

Let the inside of the gills be drawn out and washed clean; fill with
bread crumbs, parsley, sweet herbs chopped, nutmeg, salt, pepper, a bit
of butter, and grated lemon-peel; skewer the tail into the mouth, and
rub it well with yolk of egg. Strew over bread crumbs, and stick on bits
of butter. Bake the fish in a common oven, putting into the dish a
little white wine and water, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. Serve up
with oyster sauce, white fish sauce, or anchovy sauce; but put to the
sauce what gravy is in the dish, first skimming it.


_Haddock Pudding._

Skin the fish; take out all the bones, and cut it in thin slices. Butter
the mould well, and throw round it the spawn of a lobster, before it is
boiled. Put alternate slices of haddock and lobster in the mould, and
season to your taste. Beat up half a pint of cream or more, according to
the size of the mould, with three eggs, and pour on it: tie a cloth
over, and boil it an hour. Stew oysters to go in the dish. Garnish with
pastry.


_Herring._

The following is a Swedish dish: Take salted herring, some cold veal, an
apple, and an onion, mince them all fine, and mix them well together
with oil and vinegar.


_Lampreys, to pot._

Well cleanse your lampreys in the following manner: the intestines and
the pipe which nature has given them instead of a bone must be taken
clear away, by opening them down the belly from head to tail. They must
then be rubbed with wood-ashes, to remove the slime. Then rub with salt,
and wash them in three or four waters. Let them be quite free from water
before you proceed to season them thus:--take, according to the quantity
you intend to pot, allspice ground with an equal quantity of black
pepper, a little mace, cayenne pepper, salt, about the same quantity as
that of all the other seasoning; mix these well together, and rub your
lampreys inside and out. Put them into an earthen pan or a well-tinned
copper stewpan, with some good butter under and over, sufficient to
cover them, when dissolved. Put in with them a few bay-leaves and the
peel of a lemon. Let them bake slowly till they are quite done; then
strain off the butter, and let them lie on the back of a sieve till
nearly cold. Then place them in pots of suitable size, taking great
care to rub the seasoning well over them as you lay them in; because the
seasoning is apt to get from the fish when you drain them. Carefully
separate the butter which you have strained from the gravy; clarify it,
and, when almost cold, pour it into your pots so as to cover your fish
completely. If you have not sufficient butter for this purpose you must
clarify more, as the fish must be entirely hid from sight. They are fit
for use the next day.

Great care must be taken to put them into the pots quite free from the
gravy or moisture which they produce.


_Another way._

Skin your fish, cleanse them with salt, and wipe them dry. Beat some
black pepper, mace, and cloves; mix them with salt, and season your fish
with it. Put them in a pan; cover with clarified butter; bake them an
hour and season them well; remove the butter after they are baked; take
them out of their gravy, and lay them on a coarse cloth to drain. When
quite cold, season them again with the same seasoning. Lay them close in
the pot; cover them completely with clarified butter; and if your butter
is good, they will keep a long time.


_Lobsters, to butter._

Put by the tails whole, to be laid in the middle of the dish; cut the
meat into large pieces; put in a large piece of butter, and two
spoonfuls of Rhenish wine; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and serve it
up.


_Lobster Fricassee._

Cut the meat of a lobster into dice; put it in a stewpan with a little
veal gravy; let it stew for ten minutes. A little before you send it to
table beat up the yolk of an egg in cream: put it to your lobster,
stirring it till it simmers. Pepper and salt to your taste. Dish it up
very hot, and garnish with lemon.


_Lobsters, to hash._

Take the meat out of a boiled lobster as whole as you can. Break all the
shells; to these and the remains of the body, the large claws excepted,
as they have no goodness in them, put some water, cayenne pepper, salt,
and common pepper. Let them stew together till the liquor has a good
flavour of the lobster, but observe that there must be very little
water, and add two teaspoonfuls of anchovy pickle. Strain through a
common sieve; put the meat of the lobster to the gravy; add some good
rich melted butter, and send to table. Lobster sauce is made in the same
way, only the meat should be cut smaller than for hashing. Hen lobsters
are best.


_Lobsters, to pot._

Boil four moderate-sized lobsters, take off the tails, and split them.
Take out the flesh as whole as possible; pick the meat out of the body
and chine; beat it fine, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace,
and season separately, in the same manner, the tails and claws, which
must also be taken out as whole as you can. Clarify a pound of the very
finest butter; skim it clean; put in the tails and claws, with what you
have beaten, and let it boil a very short time, stirring it all the
while lest it should turn. Let it drain through a sieve, but not too
much; put it down close in a pot, and, when it is a little cooled, pour
over the butter which you drained from it. When quite cold, tie it down.
The butter should be the very best, as it mixes with the lobster spawn,
&c., and is excellent to eat with the rest or spread upon bread.


_Lobsters, to stew._

Half boil two fine lobsters; break the claws and take out the meat as
whole as you can; cut the tails in two, and take out the meat; put them
in a stewpan, with half a pint of gravy, a gill of white wine, a little
beaten mace, cayenne pepper, salt, a spoonful of ketchup, a little
anchovy liquor, and a little butter rolled in flour. Cover and stew them
gently for twenty minutes. Shake the pan round frequently to prevent the
contents from sticking; squeeze in a little lemon. Cut the chines in
four; pepper, salt, and broil them. Put the meat and sauce in a dish,
and the chines round for garnish.


_Lobster Curry Powder._

Eleven ounces of coriander seed, six drachms of cayenne pepper, one
ounce of cummin, one ounce and a half of black pepper, one ounce and a
half of turmeric, three drachms of cloves, two drachms of cardamoms.


_Lobster Patés._

Rub two ounces of butter well into half a pound of flour; add one yolk
of an egg and a little water, and make it into a stiff paste. Sheet your
paté moulds very thin, fill them with crumbs of bread, and bake lightly.
Turn out the crumbs and save them. Cut your lobster small; add to it a
little white sauce, and season with pepper and salt. Take care that it
is not too thin. Fill your moulds; cover with the crumbs which you
saved, and a quarter of an hour before dinner put them into the oven to
give them a light colour.

Oyster patés are done the same way.


_Lobster Salad._

Boil a cauliflower, pull it in pieces, and put it in a dish with a
little pepper, salt, and vinegar. Have four or five hard-boiled eggs,
boiled beet-root, small salad, and some anchovies, nicely cleaned and
cut in lengths. Put a layer of small salad at the bottom of the dish,
then a layer of the cauliflower, then the eggs cut in slices, then the
beet, and so on. Take the claws and tail of the lobster, cut as whole as
possible, and trim, to be laid on the top. The trimmings and what you
can get out may be put in at the time you are laying the cauliflower,
&c. in the dish. Make a rich salad sauce with a little elder vinegar in
it, and pour it over. Lay the tails and claws on the top, and cross the
shreds of the anchovies over them.


_Mackarel à la maitre d'hotel._

Boil the fish, and then put it in a stewpan, with a piece of butter and
sweet herbs. Set it on the fire till the butter becomes oil.


_Mackarel, to boil._

Boil them in salt and water with a little vinegar. Fennel sauce is good
to eat with them, and also coddled gooseberries.


_Mackarel, to broil._

You may split them or broil them whole; pepper and salt them well. For
sauce, scald some mint and fennel, chop them small; then melt some
butter and put your herbs in. You may scald some gooseberries and lay
over your mackarel.


_Mackarel, to collar._

Collar them as eels, only omit the sage, and add sweet herbs, a little
lemon-peel, and seasoning to your taste.


_Mackarel, to fry._

For frying you may stuff the fish with crumbs of bread, parsley well
chopped, lemon-peel grated, pepper and salt, mixed with yolk of egg.
Serve up with anchovy or fennel sauce.


_Mackarel, to pickle._

Cut the mackarel into four or five pieces; season them very high; make
slits with a penknife, put in the seasoning, and fry them in oil to a
good brown colour. Drain them very dry; put them into vinegar, if they
are to be kept for any time; pour oil on the top.


_Mackarel, to pot._

Proceed in the same manner as with eels.


_Mackarel, to souse._

Wash and clean your fish: take out the roes, and boil them in salt and
water; when enough, take them out and lay them in the dish; pour away
half the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the rest of the liquor
as much vinegar as will cover them and two or three bay leaves. Let them
lie three days before they are eaten.


_Mackarel Pie._

Cut the fish into four pieces; season them to your taste with pepper,
salt, and a little mace, mixed with a quarter of a pound of beef suet,
chopped fine. Put at the bottom and top, and between the layers of fish,
a good deal of young parsley, and instead of water a little new milk in
the dish for gravy. If you like it rich, warm about a quarter of a pint
of cream, which pour in the pie when baked; if not, have boiled a little
gravy with the heads. It will take the same time to bake as a veal pie.


_Mullet, to boil._

Let them be boiled in salt and water, and, when you think them done
enough, pour part of the water from them, and put a pint of red wine,
two onions sliced, some nutmeg, salt, and vinegar, beaten mace, a bunch
of sweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon. Boil all these well together,
with two or three anchovies; put in your fish; and, when they have
simmered some time, put them into a dish and strain the sauce over. If
you like, shrimps or oysters may be added.


_Mullet, to broil._

Let the mullet be scaled and gutted, and cut gashes in their sides; dip
them in melted butter, and broil them at a great distance from the fire.
Sauce--anchovy, with capers, and a lemon squeezed into it.


_Mullet, to fry._

Carefully scale and gut the fish, score them across the back, and then
dip them into melted butter. Melt some butter in a stewpan; let it
clarify. Fry your mullet in it; when done, lay them on a warm dish.
Sauce--anchovy and butter.


_Oysters, to stew._

Take a quart of large oysters; strain the liquor from them through a
sieve; wash them well, and take off the beards. Put them in a stewpan,
and drain the liquor from the settlings. Add to the oysters a quarter of
a pound of butter mixed with flour and a gill of white wine, and grate
in a little nutmeg with a gill of cream. Keep them stirred till they
are quite thick and smooth. Lay sippets at the bottom of the dish; pour
in your oysters, and lay fried sippets all round.


_Another way._

Put a quarter of a pound of butter into a clean stewpan, and let it
boil. Strain a pint of oysters from their liquor; put them into the
butter; and let them stew with some parsley minced small, a little
shalot shred small, and the yolks of three eggs well beaten up with the
liquor strained from the oysters. Put all these together into the
stewpan with half a pound more butter; shake it and stew them a little;
if too much, you make the oysters hard.


_Oysters, ragout of._

Twenty-five oysters, half a table-spoonful of soy, double the quantity
of vinegar, a piece of butter, and a little pepper, salt, and flour.


_Oysters, to pickle._

Blanch the oysters, and strain off the liquor; wash the oysters in three
or four waters; put them into a stewpan, with their liquor and half a
pint of white wine vinegar, two onions sliced thin, a little parsley and
thyme, a blade of mace, six cloves, Jamaica pepper, a dozen corns of
white pepper, and salt according to your taste. Boil up two or three
minutes; let them stand till cold; then put them into a dish, and pour
the liquor over them.


_Oyster Patés._ No. 1.

Stew the oysters in their own liquor, but do not let them be too much
done; beard them; take a table-spoonful of pickled mushrooms, wash them
in two or three cold waters to get out the vinegar; then cut each
mushroom into four, and fry them in a little butter dusted over with
flour. Take three table-spoonfuls of veal jelly, and two spoonfuls of
cream; let it boil, stirring all the while; add a small bit of butter.
Season with a pinch of salt, and one of cayenne pepper. Throw the
oysters, which you have kept warm in a cloth near the fire, into the
sauce; see that it is all hot; then have the patés ready, fill them with
the oysters and sauce, and put a top on each. When the paste of oyster
patés is done, remove the tops gently and cleanly with a knife; take out
the flaky part of the paste inside and from the inside of the top; cut
six little pieces of bread square so as to fill the inside; lay on the
top of the paste. Then place them on a sheet of paper in a dish, and put
them before the fire, covering them with a cloth to keep them hot. When
you are going to serve them take out the piece of bread, and fill the
patés with the oysters and sauce.


_Oyster Patés._ No. 2.

Spread some puff-paste about half an inch thick. Cut out six pieces with
a small tea-cup. Rub a baking sheet over with a brush dipped in water,
and put the patés on it at a little distance from each other. Glaze them
thoroughly with the yolk and white of egg mixed up; open a hole at the
top of each with a small knife; cut six tops of the size of a
crown-piece, and place them lightly on the patés. Let them be baked, and
when done remove the tops, and place the crust on paper till ready to
serve up; then fill them with oysters (as described in the preceding
recipe) put the tops over them, and dish them upon a folded napkin.

_Oyster Patés._ No. 3.

Parboil your oysters, and strain them from their liquor, wash the beard,
and cut them in flour. Put them in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter
rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, and a little grated lemon-peel,
if liked. Free the oyster liquor from sediment, reduce it by boiling to
one half; add cayenne pepper and salt. Stir it over the fire, and fill
your patés.


_Oyster Loaves._

Cut out the crumb of three French rolls; lay them before the fire till
they are hot through, turning them often. Melt half a pound of butter;
put some into the loaves; put on their tops, and boil them till they are
buttered quite through. Then take a pint of oysters, stewed with half a
pint of water, one anchovy, a little pepper and salt, a quarter of a
pound of butter, and as much sauce as will make your sauce thick. Give
it a boil. Put as many oysters into your loaves as will go in; pour the
rest of the sauce all over the loaves in the dish in which they are
served up.


_Oyster Pie._

Beard the oysters; scald and strain them from their liquor, and season
the liquor with pepper, salt, and anchovy, a lump of butter, and bread
crumbs. Boil up to melt the anchovies; then just heat your oysters in
it; put them all together into your pie-dish, and cover them with a
puff-paste.

If you put your oysters into a fresh pie, you must cover them at the top
with crisped crumbs of bread; add more to the savouring if you like it.


_Perch, to fricassee._

Boil the perch, and strip them of the bones; half cover them with white
wine; put in two or three anchovies, a little pepper and salt, and warm
it over the fire. Put in a little parsley and onions, with yolks of eggs
well beaten. Toss it together; put in a little thick butter; and serve
it up.


_Pike, to dress._

If you would serve it as a first dish, do not scale it; take off the
gills, and, having gutted it, boil it in court bouillon, as a side-dish,
or _entrée_. It may be served in many ways. Cut it into pieces, and put
it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, a bunch of all sorts of sweet
herbs, and some mushrooms; turn it a few times over the fire, and shake
in a little flour; moisten it with some good broth and a pint of white
wine, and set it over a brisk fire. When it is done, add a trifle of
salt and cayenne pepper, the yolk of three eggs, and half a pint of
cream, stirring it till well mixed. Serve up hot.


_Pike stuffed, to boil._

Clean a large pike; take out the gills; prepare a stuffing with finely
grated bread, all sorts of sweet-herbs, particularly thyme, some onions,
grated lemon-peel, oysters chopped small, a piece of butter, the boiled
yolk of two eggs, and a sufficient quantity of suet to hold the
ingredients together. Put them into the fish, and sew it up. Turn the
tail into the mouth, and boil it in pump water, with two spoonfuls of
vinegar and a handful of salt. It will take forty minutes to boil, if a
large fish.


_Pike, to boil, à-la-Française._

Wash well, clean, and scale a large pike, and cut it into three pieces;
boil an equal quantity of white wine and water with lemon-peel, and when
the liquor boils put your pike in, with a handful of salt. When done,
lay it on sippets, and stick it with bits of fried bread. Sauce--melted
butter, with slices of lemon in it, the yolks of three eggs, and some
grated nutmeg. Pour your sauce over the pike, and serve it up.


_Pike, to broil._

Split it, and scotch it with a knife on the outside; season it with
salt; put the gridiron on a clear fire, make it very hot, then lay on
the pike; baste it with butter, turn it often, and, when broiled crisp
and stiff put it into a dish, and serve it up with butter and the juice
of lemons, or white wine vinegar. Garnish with slices of oranges or
lemons.


_Pike in Court Bouillon._

Scale and well wash your pike; lay it in a pan; pour vinegar and salt
over it; let it lie for an hour, then take it out, season with pepper, a
little salt, sweet herbs, cloves, and a bay leaf, with a piece of
butter. Wrap it up in a napkin, and put it into a stewpan, with some
white wine, a lemon sliced, a little verjuice, nutmeg, cloves, and a bay
leaf. Let this liquor boil very fast; put in the pike, and when done lay
it on a warm dish, and strain the liquor into a saucepan; add to it an
anchovy washed and boned, a few capers, a little water, and a piece of
butter rolled in flour: let these simmer till of proper thickness, and
pour them over the fish.


_Pike Fricandeau._

Cut a pike in several pieces, according to its size, after having
scaled, gutted, and washed, it. Lard all the upper part with bacon cut
small, and put it into a stewpan with a glass of red wine (or white wine
if for white sauce) some good broth, a bunch of sweet-herbs, and some
lean veal cut into dice. When it is stewed and the sauce strained off,
complete it in the manner of any other fricandeau; putting a good sauce
under it, either brown or white, as you chuse.


_Pike, German way of dressing--delicious!_

Take a pike of moderate size; when well washed and cleansed, split it
down the back, close to the bone, in two flat pieces. Set it over the
fire in a stewpan with salt and water; half boil it. Take it out; scale
it; put it into the stewpan again, with a very little water, and some
mushrooms, truffles, and morels, an equal quantity, cut small; add a
bunch of sweet herbs. Let it stew very gently, closely covered, over a
very slow fire, or the fish will break; when it is almost done, take out
the herbs, put in a cupful of capers, chopped small, three anchovies
split and shred fine, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a
table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Pour in a pint of white wine,
and cover the stewpan quite close. When the ingredients are mixed, and
the fish quite done, lay it in a warm dish, and pour the sauce over it.


_Pike, to pot._

After scaling the fish, cut off the head, split it, take out the
back-bone, and strew it over with bay salt and pepper. Cover and bake
it; lay it on a coarse cloth to drain, and when cold put it in a pot
that will just hold it, and cover with clarified butter.

If not well drained from the gravy it will not keep.


_Pike, to roast._

Scale and slash the fish from head to tail; lard it with the flesh of
eels rolled up in sweet-herbs and seasoning; fill it with fish and
forced meat. Roast it at length; baste and bread it; make the sauce of
drawn butter, anchovies, the roe and liver, with mushrooms, capers, and
oysters. Ornament with sliced lemon.


_Pike au Souvenir._

Wash a large pike; gut and dry it; make a forcemeat with eel, anchovy,
whiting, pepper, salt, suet, thyme, bread crumbs, parsley, and a bit of
shalot, mixed with the yolks of eggs; fill the inside of the fish with
this meat; sew it up; after which draw with your packing-needle a piece
of packthread through the eyes of the pike, through the middle and the
tail also in the form of S; wash it over with the yolk of an egg, and
strew it with the crumbs of bread. Roast or bake it with a caul over it.
Sauce--melted butter and capers.


_Pike à la Tatare, or in the Tartar fashion._

Clean your pike; gut and scale it; cut it into bits, and lay it in oil,
with salt, cayenne pepper, parsley, scallions, mushrooms, two shalots,
the whole shred very fine; grate bread over it and lay it upon the
gridiron, basting it, while broiling, with the rest of the oil. When it
is done of a good colour, serve it in a dry dish, with sauce _à la
remoulade_ [see Sauces] in a sauce-boat.


_Fresh Salmon, to dress._

Cut it in slices, steep it in a little sweet butter, salt and pepper,
and broil it, basting it with butter while doing. When done, serve over
it any of the fish sauces, as described (see the Sauces), or you may
serve it with court bouillon, which will do for all kinds of fish
whatever.


_Salmon, to dress _en caisses_, that is, in small paper cases._

Take two slices of fresh salmon, about the thickness of half a finger;
steep it an hour in sweet butter with mushrooms, a clove of garlic, and
a shalot, all shred fine, half a laurel-leaf, thyme, and basil, reduced
to a fine powder, salt, and whole pepper. Then make a neat paper box to
contain your salmon; rub the outside of it with butter, and put the
salmon with all its seasoning and covered with grated bread into it; do
it in an oven, or put the dish upon a stove, and, when the salmon is
done, brown it with a salamander. When you serve it, squeeze in the
juice of a large lemon. If you serve it with Spanish sauce, the fat
must be taken off the salmon before you put in the sauce.


_Salmon à la Poële, or done on the Stove._

Put three or four slices of fillet of veal, and two or three of ham,
having carefully cut off the fat of both, at the bottom of a stewpan,
just the size of the salmon you would serve. Lay the salmon upon it, and
cover it with thin slices of bacon, adding a bunch of parsley,
scallions, two cloves of garlic, and three shalots. Boil it gently over
a moderate stove fire, a quarter of an hour; moisten it with a glass of
champagne, or fine white wine; let it continue to stew slowly till
thoroughly done; and the moment before you serve it strain off the
sauce, laying the salmon in a hot dish. Add to the sauce five or six
spoonfuls of cullis; let it boil up two or three times, and then pour it
over the salmon, and serve up.


_Scallops._

Pick the scallops, and wash them extremely clean; make them very dry.
Flour them a very little. Fry them of a fine light brown. Make a nice,
strong, light sauce of veal and a little ham; thicken a very little, and
gently stew the scallops in it for half an hour.


_Shrimps, to pot._

Pick the finest shrimps you can procure; season them with a little mace
beaten fine, and pepper and salt to your taste. Add a little cold
butter. Pound all together in a mortar till it becomes a paste. Put it
into small pots, and pour over it clarified butter.


_Another way._

To a quart of pickled shrimps put two ounces of fresh butter, and stew
them over a moderate fire, stirring them about. Add to them while on the
fire twelve white peppercorns and two blades of mace, beaten very fine,
and a very little salt.--Let them stew a quarter of an hour: when done,
put them down close in pots, and pour clarified butter over them when
cold.


_Smelts, to fry._

Dry and rub them with yolk of egg; flour or strew some fine bread crumbs
on them; when fried, lay them in the dish with their tails in the middle
of it. Anchovy sauce.


_Smelts, to pickle._

Take a quarter of a peck of smelts, and put them into a jar, and beat
very fine half an ounce of nutmegs, and the same quantity of saltpetre
and of pepper, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and a quarter of a pound
of common salt. Wash the fish; clean gut them, after which lay them in
rows in a jar or pan; over every layer of smelts strew your seasoning,
with some bay-leaves, and pour on boiled red wine sufficient to cover
them. Put a plate or a cover over, and when cold tie them down close.


_Smelts, to pot._

Clean the inside of the fish, and season them with salt, pounded mace,
and pepper. Bake them, and when nearly cold lay them upon a cloth; then
put them into pots, taking off the butter from the gravy; clarify it
with more butter, and pour it on them.


_Soles, to boil._

The soles should be boiled in salt and water. Anchovy sauce.


_Soles, to boil, à-la-Française._

Put a quart of water and half a pint of vinegar into an earthen dish;
skin and clean a pair of soles; put them into vinegar and water, let
them remain there for two hours. Dry them with a cloth, and put them
into a stewpan, with a pint of wine, a quarter of a pint of water, a
little sweet marjoram, a very little thyme, an onion stuck with four
cloves, and winter savory. Sprinkle a very little bay salt, covering
them close. Let them simmer gently till they are done; then take them
out, and lay them in a warm dish before the fire. Put into the liquor,
after it is strained, a piece of butter rolled in flour; let it boil
till of a proper thickness; lay your soles in the dish, and pour the
sauce over them.

A small turbot or any flat fish may be done the same way.


_Soles, to stew._

Cut and skin the soles, and half fry them; have ready the quantity you
like of half white wine and half water, mixed with some gravy, one whole
onion, and a little whole pepper. Stew them all together, with a little
shred lemon, and a few mushrooms. When they are done enough, thicken the
sauce with good butter, and serve it up.


_Water Souchi._

Put on a kettle of water with a good deal of salt in it, and a good many
parsley roots; keep it skimmed very clean, and when it boils up throw in
your perch or whatever fish you use for the purpose. When sufficiently
boiled, take them up and serve them hot. Have ready a pint or more of
water, in which parsley roots have been boiled, till it has acquired a
very strong flavour, and when the fish are dished throw some of this
liquor over them. The Dutch sauce for them is made thus:--To a pint of
white wine vinegar add a blade or two of mace; let it stew gently by the
fire, and, when the vinegar is sufficiently flavoured by the mace, put
into it about a pound of butter. Shake the saucepan now and then, and,
when the butter is quite melted, make all exceedingly hot; have ready
the yolks of four good eggs beaten up. You must continue beating them
while another person gently pours to them the boiling vinegar by
degrees, lest they should curdle; and continue stirring them all the
while. Set it over a gentle fire, still continuing to stir until it is
very hot and of the thickness you desire; then serve it.


_Sprats, to bake._

Wipe your sprats with a clean cloth; rub them with pepper and salt, and
lay them in a pan. Bruise a pennyworth of cochineal; put it into the
vinegar, and pour it over the sprats with some bay-leaves. Tie them down
close with coarse paper in a deep brown pan, and set them in the oven
all night. They eat very fine cold.

You may put to them a pint of vinegar, half a pint of red wine, and
spices if you like it; but they eat very well without.


_Sturgeon, to roast._

Put a walnut-sized bit of butter (or more if it is a large fish), rolled
in flour, in a stewpan, with sweet-herbs, cloves, a gill of water, and a
spoonful of vinegar; stir it over the fire, and when it is lukewarm take
it off, and put in your sturgeon to steep. When it has been a sufficient
time to take the flavour of the herbs, roast it, and when done, serve it
with court bouillon, or any other fish sauce.


_Turbot, to dress._

Wipe your turbot very dry, then take a deep stewpan, put in the fish,
with two bay-leaves, a handful of parsley, a large onion stuck with
cloves, some salt, and cayenne; heat a pint of white wine boiling hot,
and pour it upon the turbot; then strain in some very strong veal gravy,
(made from your stock jelly,) more than will cover it; set it over a
stove, and let it simmer very gently, that the full strength of the
ingredients may be infused into it. When it is quite done, put it on a
hot dish; strain the gravy into a saucepan, with some butter and flour
to thicken it.

Plaice, dabs, and flounders, may be dressed in the same way.


_Turbot, plain boiled._

Make a brine with two handfuls of salt in a gallon of water, let the
turbot lie in it two hours before it is to be boiled; then set on a
fish-kettle, with water enough to cover it, and about half a pint of
vinegar, or less if the turbot is small; put in a piece of horseradish;
when the water boils put in the turbot, the white side uppermost, on a
fish-plate; let it be done enough, but not too much, which will be
easily known by the look. A small one will take twenty minutes, a large
one half an hour. Then take it up, and set it on a fish-plate to drain,
before it is laid in the dish. See that it is served quite dry.
Sauce--lobster and white sauce.


_Turbot, to boil._

Put the turbot into a kettle, with white wine vinegar and lemon; season
with salt and onions; add to these water. Boil it over a gentle fire,
skimming it very clean. Garnish with slices of lemon on the top.


_Turbot, to boil in Gravy._

Wash and well dry a middling sized turbot; put it with two bay-leaves
into a deep stew-dish, with some cloves, a handful of parsley, a large
onion, and some salt and pepper, add a pint of boiling hot white wine,
strain in some strong veal gravy that will more than cover the fish, and
remove it on one side that the ingredients may be well mixed together.
Lay it on a hot dish, strain the gravy into a saucepan with some butter
and flour, pour a little over the fish, and put the remainder in a sauce
terrine.


_Turbot, to boil in Court Bouillon, with Capers._

Be very particular in washing and drying your turbot. Take thyme,
parsley, sweet-herbs of all sorts, minced very fine, and one large onion
sliced; put them into a stewpan, then lay in the turbot--the stewpan
should be just large enough to hold the fish--strew over the fish the
same herbs that are under it, with some chives and a little sweet basil;
pour in an equal quantity of white wine and white wine vinegar, till the
fish is completely covered; strew in a little bay salt with some pepper.
Set the stewpan over a stove, with a very gentle fire, increasing the
heat by degrees, till it is done sufficiently. Take it off the fire, but
do not take the turbot out: let it stand on the side of the stove. Set a
saucepan on the fire, with a pound of butter and two anchovies, split,
boned, and carefully cleansed, two large spoonfuls of capers cut small,
some chives whole, and a little cayenne, nutmeg grated, a little flour,
a spoonful of vinegar, and a little broth. Set the saucepan over the
stove, keep shaking it round for some time, and then leave it at the
side of the stove. Take up the stewpan in which is the turbot, and set
it on the stove to make it quite hot; then put it in a deep dish; and,
having warmed the sauce, pour it over it, and serve up.

Soles, flounders, plaice, &c. are all excellent dressed in the same way.


_Turbot, to fry._

It must be a small turbot. Cut it across, as if it were ribbed; when it
is quite dry, flour it, and put it into a large frying-pan with boiling
butter enough to cover it; fry it brown, then drain it. Put in enough
claret to cover it, two anchovies, salt, a scruple of nutmeg and ginger,
and let it stew slowly till half the liquor is wasted; then take it out,
and put in a piece of butter, of the size of a walnut, rolled in flour,
and a lemon minced, juice and all. Let these ingredients simmer till of
a proper thickness. Rub a hot dish with an eschalot or onion; pour the
sauce in, and lay the turbot carefully in the midst.


_Turbot or Barbel, glazed._

Lard the upper part of your turbot or barbel with fine bacon. Let it
simmer slowly between slices of ham, with a little champagne, or fine
white, and a bunch of sweet-herbs. Put into another stewpan part of a
fillet of veal, cut into dice, with one slice of ham; stew them with
some fine cullis, till the sauce is reduced to a thick gravy. When
thoroughly done, strain it off before you serve it, and, with a feather,
put it over your turbot to glaze it. Then pour some good cullis into the
stewpan, and toss it up as a sauce to serve in the dish, adding the
juice of a lemon.


_Turbot, to dress _en gras_, or in a rich fashion._

Put into a stewpan a small quantity of broth, several slices of veal,
and an equal quantity of ham, a little cayenne, and a bunch of
sweet-herbs. Let it stew over a very slow stove, and add a glass of
champagne. When this is completely done, serve it with any of the
sauces, named in the article Sauces, added to its own.


_Turbot or Barbel, to dress _en maigre,_ or in a lean fashion._

Put into a stewpan a large handful of salt, a pint of water, a clove of
garlic, onions, and all sorts of sweet kitchen herbs, the greater
variety the better, only an equal quantity of each. Boil the whole half
an hour over a slow fire; let it settle. Pour off the clear part of the
sauce, and strain it through a sieve; then put twice as much rich milk
as there is of the brine, and put the fish in it over a very slow fire,
letting it simmer only. When your turbot is done, pour over it any of
the sauces named as being proper for fish in the article Sauces.


_Turtle, to dress._

After having killed the turtle, divide the back and belly, cleaning it
well from the blood in four or five waters, with some salt; take away
the fins from the back, and scrape and scald them well from the scales;
then put the meat into the saucepan, with a little salt and water just
to cover it; stew it, and keep skimming it very clean all the while it
is stewing. Should the turtle be a large one, put a bottle of white
wine; if a small one, half that quantity. It must be stewed an hour and
a half before you put in the wine, and the scum have done rising; for
the wine being put in before turns it hard; and, while it is stewing,
put an onion or two shred fine, with a little parsley, thyme, salt, and
black pepper. After it has stewed tender, take it out of the saucepan,
and cut it into small pieces; let the back shell be well washed clean
from the blood, and rub it with salt, pepper, thyme, parsley, and
onions, shred fine, mixed well together; put a layer of seasoning into
the shell, and lay on your meat, and so continue till the shell is
filled, covering it with seasoning. If a large turtle, two pounds of
butter must be cut into bits, and laid between the seasoning and the
meat. You must thicken the soup with butter rolled in flour. An hour and
a half is requisite for a large turtle.


_Whiting, to dry._

Take the whiting when they come fresh in, and lay them in salt and water
about four hours, the water not being too salt. Hang them up by the
tails two days near a fire, after which, skin and broil them.




MADE DISHES.


_Asparagus forced in French Rolls._

Take out the crumb of three French rolls, by first cutting off a piece
of the top crust; but be careful to cut it so neatly that the crust fits
the place again. Fry the rolls brown in fresh butter. Take a pint of
cream, the yolks of six eggs beaten fine, a little salt and nutmeg; stir
them well together over a slow fire until the mixture begins to be
thick. Have ready a hundred of small asparagus boiled; save tops enough
to stick in the rolls; the rest cut small and put into the cream; fill
the rolls with it. Before you fry the rolls, make holes thick in the top
crust to stick the asparagus in; then lay on the piece of crust, and
stick it with asparagus as if it was growing.


_Eggs, to dress._

Boil or poach them in the common way. Serve them on a piece of buttered
toast, or on stewed spinach.


_Eggs buttered._ No. 1.

Take the yolks and whites; set them over the fire with a bit of butter,
and a little pepper and salt; stir them a minute or two. When they
become rather thick and a little turned in small lumps, pour them on a
buttered toast.


_Eggs buttered._ No. 2.

Put a lump of butter, of the size of a walnut; beat up two eggs; add a
little cream, and put in the stewpan, stirring them till they are hot.
Add pepper and salt, and lay them on toast.


_Eggs buttered._ No. 3.

Beat the eggs well together with about three spoonfuls of cream and a
little salt; set the mass over a slow fire, stirring till it becomes
thick, without boiling, and have a toast ready buttered to pour it
upon.

Milk with a little butter, about the size of a walnut, may be used
instead of the cream.


_Eggs, Scotch._

Take half a pound of the flesh of a fowl, or of veal, or any white meat
(dressed meat will do), mince it very small with half a pound of suet
and the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream, a little parsley, plenty
of lemon-peel shred very small, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound
all these together, adding a raw egg, till they become a paste. Boil as
many eggs as you want very hard; take out the yolks, roll them up in the
forcemeat, and make them the size and shape of an egg. Fry them till
they are of a light brown, and toss them up in a good brown sauce.
Quarter some hard-boiled eggs, and spread them over your dish.


_Eggs for second Course._

Boil five eggs quite hard; clear away the shells, cut them in half, take
out the yolks, and put the whites into warm water. Pound the yolks in a
mortar till they become very fine. Have ready some parsley and a little
onion chopped as fine as possible; add these to the yolks, with a pinch
of salt and cayenne pepper. Add a sufficient quantity of hot cream to
make it into a thick even paste; fill the halves of the whites with
this, and keep the whole in hot water. Prepare white sauce; place the
eggs on a dish in two rows, the broad part downward; pour the sauce over
them, and serve up hot.


_Eggs to fry as round as Balls._

Put three pints of clarified butter into a deep stewpan; heat it as hot
as for fritters, and stir the butter with a stick till it turns round
like a whirlpool. Break an egg into the middle, and turn it round with
the stick till it is as hard as a poached egg. The whirling round of the
butter makes it as round as a ball. Take it up with a slice; put it in a
dish before the fire. Do as many as you want; they will be soft, and
keep hot half an hour. Serve on stewed spinach.


_Eggs, fricassee of._

Boil the eggs pretty hard; cut them in round slices; make white sauce
and pour it over them; lay sippets round your dish, and put a whole yolk
in the middle.


_Eggs à la Crême._

Boil the eggs, which must be quite fresh, twelve minutes; and throw them
into cold water. When cold, take off the shell without breaking the
white. Have a little shalot and parsley minced fine and mixed; pass it
with a little fresh butter. When done enough, set it to cool. Cut the
eggs through the middle; put the whites into warm water; pound the yolks
very fine; put them into your stewpan, with a little cream, pepper, and
salt. Make the whole very hot, and dish. Two gills of cream will be
sufficient for ten eggs.


_Ham, essence of._

Take six pounds of ham; cut off all the skin and fat, and cut the lean
into slices about an inch thick; lay them in the bottom of a stewpan,
with slices of carrots, parsnips, six onions sliced; cover down very
close, and set it over a stove. Pour on a pint of veal cullis by
degrees, some fresh mushrooms cut in pieces, if to be had, if not,
mushroom powder, truffles, morels, two cloves, a basil leaf, parsley, a
crust of bread, and a leek. Cover down close, and let it simmer till the
meat is quite dissolved. A little of this sauce will flavour any lighter
sauce with great zest and delicacy.


_Maccaroni in a mould of Pie Crust._

Prepare a paste, as generally made for apple-pies, of an oval shape; put
a stout bottom to it and no top; let it bake by the fire till served.
Prepare a quarter of a pound of maccaroni, boil it with a little salt
and half an ounce of butter; when done, put it in another stewpan with
an ounce more of butter, a little grated cheese, and a spoonful of
cream. Drain the maccaroni, and toss it till the cheese be well mixed;
pour it into a dish; sprinkle some more grated cheese over it, and baste
it with a little butter. When ready to be served, put the maccaroni into
the paste, and dish it up hot without browning the cheese.


_Maccaroni, to dress._ No. 1.

Stew one pound of gravy beef to a rich gravy, with turnips and onions,
but no carrots; season it high with cayenne, and fine it with whites of
eggs. When the gravy is cold, put in the maccaroni; set it on a gentle
fire; stir it often that it may not burn, and let it stew an hour and a
half. When you serve it up add of Cheshire cheese grated as much as will
make the maccaroni relishing.


_Maccaroni._ No. 2.

Boil two ounces of maccaroni in plenty of water an hour and a half, and
drain it through a sieve. Put it into a saucepan, and beat a little bit
of butter, some pepper and salt, and as much grated cheese as will give
a proper flavour. Put it into the saucepan with the maccaroni, and add
two spoonfuls of cream. Set it on the fire, and stew it up. Put it on
your dish; strew a little grated cheese over it, and brown with a
salamander.


_Maccaroni._ No. 3.

Boil the maccaroni till tender; cut it in pieces about two inches long;
put it into either white or brown sauce, and let it stew gently for half
an hour. Either stir in some grated cheese, or send it in plain. Pepper
and salt to your taste.


_Maccaroni._ No. 4.

Soak a quarter of a pound of maccaroni in milk for two hours; put it
into a stewpan, boil it well, and thicken with a little flour and
butter. Season it with pepper and salt to your taste; and add three
table-spoonfuls of cream. Put it in a dish; add bread crumbs and sliced
cheese, and brown with a salamander.


_Maccaroni._ No. 5.

Set on the fire half a gallon of water; when it boils put into it one
pound of maccaroni, with a quarter of a pound of salt; let it boil a
quarter of an hour, then strain very dry, put it in a stewpan with a
quarter of a pound of fresh butter; let it fry a quarter of an hour
longer. Add pepper and grated cheese; stew them together; then put the
maccaroni into a terrine, and shake some grated cheese on it. It is very
good with a-la-mode beef gravy instead of butter.


_Maccaroni._ No. 6.

Boil a quarter of a pound of maccaroni till it is quite tender; lay it
on a sieve to drain; then put it into a tossing-pan with about a gill of
cream and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Boil five minutes, pour it
on a plate, and lay Parmesan cheese toasted all over it.


_Maccaroni._ No. 7.

Break a quarter of a pound of pipe maccaroni into pieces about an inch
long, put it into a quart of boiling broth; boil it for three hours;
then strain it off from the broth, and make a sauce with a bit of
butter, a little flour, some good broth, and a little cream; when it
boils add a little Parmesan cheese. Put your maccaroni into the sauce,
and just stir it together. Put it on the dish for table, with grated
Parmesan cheese over it, and give it a good brown colour with a hot
shovel or salamander.


_Maccaroni._ No. 8.

Boil three ounces of maccaroni in water till quite tender; lay it on a
sieve to drain; when dry, put it into a stewpan, over a charcoal fire,
with three or four spoonfuls of fresh cream, one ounce of butter, and a
little grated Parmesan cheese. Set it over a slow fire till quite hot,
but it must not boil; pour it into your hot dish; shake a little of the
cheese over the top, and brown with a salamander.


_Omelets._

should be fried in a small frying-pan, made for the purpose; with a
small quantity of butter. Their great merit is to be thick; therefore
use only half the number of whites that you do of yolks of eggs. The
following ingredients are the basis of all omelets: parsley, shalot, a
portion of sweet-herbs, ham, tongue, anchovy, grated cheese, shrimps,
oysters, &c.


_Omelet._ No. 1.

Slice very thin two onions, about two ounces each; put them in a stewpan
with three ounces of butter; keep the pan covered till done, stirring
now and then, and, when of a nice brown, stir in as much flour as will
produce a stiff paste. Add by degrees as much water or milk as will make
it the thickness of good cream, and stew it with pepper and salt; have
ready hard-boiled eggs (four or five); you may either shred or cut them
in halves or quarters.


_Omelet._ No. 2.

Beat five eggs lightly together, a small quantity of shalot, shred quite
fine; parsley, and a few mushrooms. Fry, and be careful not to let it
burn. When done add a little sauce.


_Omelet._ No. 3.

Break five eggs into a basin; add half a pint of cream, a table-spoonful
of flour, a little pounded loaf-sugar, and a little salt. Beat it up
with a whisk for five minutes; add candied citron and orange peel; fry
it in two ounces of butter.


_Omelet._ No. 4.

Take six or seven eggs, a gill of good cream, chopped parsley, thyme, a
very small quantity, shalot, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg.
Put a little butter in your frying-pan, which must be very clean or the
omelet will not turn out. When your butter is melted, and your omelet
well beat, pour it in, put it on a gentle fire, and as it sets keep
moving and mixing it with a spoon. Add a little more butter if required.
When it is quite loose from the bottom, turn it over on the dish in
which it is to be served.


_Omelet._ No. 5.

Break eight eggs into an earthen pan, with a little pepper and salt, and
water sufficient to dissolve the salt; beat the eggs well. Throw an
ounce and a half of fresh butter into a frying-pan; melt it over the
fire; pour the eggs into the pan; keep turning them continually, but
never let the middle part be over the fire. Gather all the border, and
roll it before it is too much done; the middle must be kept hollow. Roll
it together before it is served. A little chopped parsley and onions may
be mixed with the butter and eggs, and a little shalot or pounded ham.


_Omelet._ No. 6.

Four eggs, a little scraped beef, cayenne pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel,
parsley, burnet, chervil, and onion, all fried in lard or butter.


_Asparagus Omelet._

Beat up six eggs, put some cream to them. Boil some asparagus, cut off
the green heads, and mix with the eggs; add pepper and salt. Make the
pan hot; put in some butter; fry the omelet, and serve it hot.


_A French Omelet._

Beat up six eggs; put to them a quarter of a pint of cream, some pepper,
salt, and nutmeg; beat them well together. Put a quarter of a pound of
butter, made hot, into your omelet-pan, and fry it of a light brown.
Double it once, and serve it up plain, or with a white sauce under it.
If herbs are preferred, there should be a little parsley shred, and
green onion cut very fine, and serve up fried.


_Ragout for made dishes._

Boil and blanch some cocks' combs, with sweetbreads sliced and lambs'
stones; mix them up in gravy, with sweet-herbs, truffles, mushrooms,
oysters, and savoury spice, and use it when you have occasion.


_Trouhindella._

Chop fine two pounds of veal, fat and lean together; slice crumb of
bread into some warm milk: squeeze it out of the milk and put it to the
veal; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; make it up in three balls,
and fry it in butter half an hour. Put a quart of mutton or veal broth
into the pan, and let it stew three quarters of an hour, or till it is
reduced to a quarter of a pint of strong gravy.




MEATS AND VEGETABLES.


_Artichokes, to fricassee._

Scrape the bottom clean; cut them into large dice, and boil them, but
not too soft. Stove them in a little cream, seasoned with pepper and
salt; thicken with the yolks of four eggs and melted butter, and serve
up.


_Bacon, to cure._ No. 1.

Use two pounds of common salt; one pound of bay salt; one pound of brown
sugar; two ounces of saltpetre; two ounces of ground black pepper.


_Bacon, to cure._ No. 2.

Take half a pound of saltpetre, or let part of it be petre salt, half a
pound of bay salt, and one pound of coarse sugar; pound and mix them
well together. Rub this mixture well into the bacon, and cover it
completely with common salt. Dry it thoroughly, and keep it well packed
in malt dust.


_Bacon, to cure._ No. 3.

For sixty pounds' weight of pork take three pounds of common salt, half
a pound of saltpetre, and half a pound of brown sugar. The sugar must be
put on first and well rubbed in, and last of all the common salt. Let
the meat lie in salt only a week, and then hang it at a good distance
from the fire, but in a place where a fire is constantly kept. When
thoroughly dry, remove it into a garret, and there let it remain till
wanted for use.


_Barbicue._

Cut either the fore quarter or leg of a small pork pig in the shape of a
ham; roast it well, and a quarter of an hour before it is enough done,
baste it with Madeira wine; then strain the Madeira and gravy in the
dripping-pan through a sieve; mix to your taste with cayenne pepper and
lemon-juice; and serve it in the dish.


_Alamode Beef._ No. 1.

Take a piece of the round of beef, fresh and tender; beat it well, and
to six pounds of beef put one pound of bacon, cut into large pieces for
larding, and season it with pepper, cloves, and salt. Lard your beef,
and put it into your stewpan, with a bay-leaf or two, and two or three
onions, a bunch of parsley, a little lemon-peel, three spoonfuls of
vinegar, and the same quantity of beer. Cover it close, and set it over
a gentle charcoal fire; stew it very gently that your liquor may come
out; and shake it often to prevent its sticking. As the liquor
increases, make your fire a little stronger, and, when enough done, skim
off all the fat, and put in a glass of claret. Stew it half an hour
longer, and when you take it off your fire squeeze in the juice of a
lemon, and serve up. It must stew five hours; and is as good cold as
hot.


_Alamode Beef._ No. 2.

Lard the mouse-buttock with fat bacon, sprinkled with parsley,
scallions, mushrooms, truffles, morels, one clove of garlic shred fine,
salt, and pepper. Let it stew five or six hours in its own gravy, to
which add, when it is about half done, a large spoonful of brandy. It
should be done in an earthen vessel just large enough to contain it, and
may be served hot or cold.


_Alamode Beef._ No. 3.

Lard a piece of beef with fat bacon, dipped in pepper, vinegar,
allspice, and salt; flour it all over; cut two or three large onions in
thin slices; lay them at the bottom of the stewpan with as much butter
as will fry your beef; lay it in and brown it all over; turn it
frequently. Pour to it as much boiling water as will cover it; add a
little lemon-peel, and a bunch of herbs, which must be taken out before
done enough; when it has stewed about two hours turn it. When finished,
put in some mushrooms or ketchup, and serve up.


_Alamode Beef, in the French manner._

Take the best part of the mouse-buttock, between four and seven pounds,
larded well with fat bacon, and cut in square pieces the length and
thickness of your beef. Before you lard it, take a little mace, six
cloves, some pepper and salt, ground all together, and mix it with some
parsley, shalot, and a few sweet-herbs; chop them small, roll your bacon
in this mixture, and lard your beef. Skewer it well, and tie it close
with a string; put two or three slices of fat bacon at the bottom of
your stewpan, with three slices of carrot, two onions cut in two, and
half a pint of water; put your beef in, and set your stewpan on the
fire. After the beef has stewed about ten minutes, add more hot water,
till it half covers the meat; let it boil till you feel with your finger
that your beef is warm or hot through. Lay two or three slices of fat
bacon upon your beef, add a little mace, cloves, pepper, and salt, a few
slices of carrot, a small bunch of sweet-herbs, and celery tied
together, a little garlic if you like it. Cut a piece of paper, of the
size of your cover; well grease it with butter or lard; put it over your
pan, cover it close, and let it stew over a very slow fire seven or
eight hours. If you like to eat the beef cold, do not uncover the pan
till it is so, for it will be the better for it. If you choose to stew a
knuckle of veal with the beef, it will add greatly to the flavour.


_Rump of Beef, with onions._

Having extracted the bones, tie it compactly in a good shape, and stew
it in a pan that will allow for fire at the top. Put in a pint of white
wine, some good broth, a slice of veal, two of bacon, or ham, which is
better, a large bunch of kitchen herbs, pepper and salt. When the beef
is nearly half done, add a good quantity of onions. The beef being
thoroughly done, take it out and wipe off the grease; place it in the
dish in which it is to be served at table, put the onions round it, and
pour over it a good sauce, any that suits your taste.


_Rump of Beef, to bake._

Bone a rump of beef; beat it thoroughly with a rolling-pin, till it is
very tender; cut off the sinew, and lard it with large pieces of bacon;
roll your larding seasoning first--of pepper, salt, and cloves. Lard
athwart the meat that it may cut handsomely; then season the meat all
over with pepper and salt, and a little brown sugar. Tie it neatly up
with packthread across and across, put the top undermost, and place it
in an earthen pan. Take all the bones that came out of it, and put them
in round and round the beef, so that it cannot stir; then put in half a
pound of butter, two bay-leaves, two shalots, and all sorts of seasoning
herbs, chopped fine. Cover the top of the pot with coarse paste; put it
in a slow oven; let it stand eight hours; take it out, and serve it in
the dish in which it is to go to table, with its own juice, and some
have additional broth or gravy ready to add to it if it is too dry.


_Rump of Beef, cardinal fashion._

Choose a rump of beef of moderate size, say ten or twelve pounds; take
out the bones; beat it, and lard it with a pound of the best bacon,
mingled with salt and spices, without touching the upper parts. Rub
half a quarter of a pound of saltpetre in powder into the meat that it
may look red; and put it into a pan with an ounce of juniper-berries a
little bruised, a tea-spoonful of brown sugar, a little thyme, basil,
and a pound of salt; and there let it remain, the pan being covered
close, for eight days. When the meat has taken the salt, wash it in warm
water, and put some slices of bacon upon the upper part on that side
which is covered with fat, and tie a linen cloth over it with
packthread. Let it stew gently five hours, with a pint and a half of red
wine, a pint of water, six onions, two cloves of garlic, five carrots,
two parsnips, a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, four or five cloves, parsley,
and scallions. When it is done, it may be either served up hot, or left
to cool in its own liquor, and eaten cold.


_Beef, sausage fashion._

Take a slice of beef, about half an inch thick and four or five wide;
cut it in two equal parts; beat them well to make them flat, and pare
the edges neatly. Mince your parings with beef suet, parsley, onions,
mushroom, a shalot, two leaves of basil, and mix them into a forcemeat
with the yolks of four eggs. A little minced ham is a great addition.
Spread this forcemeat upon the slices of beef, and roll them up in the
form of sausages. Tie them with packthread, and stew them in a little
broth, a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, an onion stuck with cloves,
a carrot, and a parsnip. When they are done, strain off the liquor, and,
having skimmed off the fat, reduce it over the fire to the consistence
of a sauce; take care that it be not too highly flavoured, and serve it
over your sausages, or they may be served on sorrel, spinach, or any
other sauce you prefer.


_Ribs and Sirloin of Beef._

When the ribs and sirloin are tender, they are commonly roasted, and
eaten with their own gravy. To make the sirloin still better, take out
the fillet: cut it into thin slices, and put it into a stewpan, with a
sauce made with capers, anchovies, mushrooms, a little garlic, truffles,
and morels, the whole shred fine, turned a few times over the fire, with
a little butter, and moistened with some good cullis. When the sauce is
skimmed and seasoned to your taste, put in the fillet with the gravy of
the meat, and heat and serve it over the ribs or sirloin.


_Rib of Beef, en papillotes, (in paper.)_

Cut a rib of beef neatly, and stew it with some broth and a little
pepper and salt. When the meat is done enough, reduce the sauce till it
sticks to the rib, and then steep the rib in butter, with parsley,
scallions, shalots, and mushrooms, shred fine, and a little basil in
powder. Wrap the rib, together with its seasoning, in a sheet of white
paper, folding the paper round in the form of a curling paper or
papillote; grease the outside, and lay it upon the gridiron, on another
sheet of greased paper, over a slow fire. When it is done, serve it in
the paper.


_Brisket of Beef, stewed German Fashion._

Cut three or four pounds of brisket of beef in three or four pieces of
equal size, and boil it a few minutes in water; in another pan boil the
half of a large cabbage for a full quarter of an hour; stew the meat
with a little broth, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a little garlic,
thyme, basil, and a laurel-leaf; and an hour afterwards put in the
cabbage, cut into three pieces, well squeezed, and tied with packthread,
and three large onions. When the whole is nearly done, add four
sausages, with a little salt and whole pepper, and let it stew till the
sauce is nearly consumed; then take out the meat and vegetables, wipe
off the grease, and dish them, putting the beef in the middle, the
onions and cabbage round, and the sausages upon it. Strain the sauce
through a sieve, and, having skimmed off the fat, serve it over the
ragout. The beef will take five hours and a quarter at the least to
stew.


_Beef, to bake._

Take a buttock of beef; beat it in a mortar; put to it three pounds of
bacon cut in small pieces; season with pepper and salt, and mix in the
bacon with your hands. Put it into a pot, with some butter and a bunch
of sweet-herbs, covering it very close, and let it bake six hours. When
enough done, put it into a cloth to strain; then put it again into your
pot, and fill it up with butter.


_Beef bouilli._

Take the thick part of the brisket of beef, and let it lie in water all
night; tie it up well, and put it to boil slowly, with a small faggot of
parsley and thyme, a bag of peppercorns and allspice, three or four
onions, and roots of different sorts: it will take five or six hours, as
it should be very tender. Take it out, cut the string from it, and
either glaze it or sprinkle some dry parsley that has been chopped very
fine over it; sprinkle a little flour on the top of it, with gherkin and
carrot. The chief sauce for it is _sauce hachée_, which is made thus: a
little dressed ham, gherkin, boiled carrot, and the yolk of egg boiled,
all chopped fine and put into brown sauce.


_Another way._

Take about eight or nine pounds of the middle part of the brisket; put
it into your stew-kettle (first letting it hang up for four or five
days) with a little whole pepper, salt, and a blade or two of mace, a
turnip or two, and an onion, adding about three pints or two quarts of
water. Cover it up close, and when it begins to boil skim it; let it
stand on a very slow fire, just to keep it simmering. It will take five
hours or more before it is done, and during that time you must take the
meat out, in order to skim off the fat. When it is quite tender take
your stewpan, and brown a little butter and flour, enough to thicken the
gravy, which you must put through a colander, first adding sliced
carrots and turnips, previously boiled in another pot. You may also, if
you choose, put in an anchovy, a little ketchup, and juice of lemon; but
these are omitted according to taste. When the gravy is thus prepared,
put the meat in again; give it a boil, and dish it up.


_Relishing Beef._

Take a round of the best piece of beef and lard it with bacon; half
roast it; put it in a stewpan, with some gravy, an onion stuck with
cloves, half a pint of white wine, a gill of vinegar, a bunch of
sweet-herbs, pepper, cloves, mace, and salt; cover it down very close,
and let it only simmer till it is quite tender. Take two ox-palates, two
sweetbreads, truffles, morels, artichoke-bottoms, and stew them all
together in some good gravy, which pour over the beef. Have ready
forcemeat balls fried, made in different shapes; dip some sippets into
butter, fry and cut them three-corner-ways, stick them into the meat;
lay the balls round the dish.


_Beef, to stew._

Take a pound and a half of the fat part of a brisket, with four pounds
of stewing beef, cut into pieces; put these into a stewpan, with a
little salt, pepper, a bunch of sweet-herbs and onions, stuck with
cloves, two or three pieces of carrots, two quarts of water, and half a
pint of good small beer. Let the whole stew for four hours; then take
some turnips and carrots cut into pieces, a small leek, two or three
heads of celery, cut small, and a piece of bread toasted hard. Let these
stew all together one hour longer; then put the whole into a terrine,
and serve up.


_Another way._

Put three pounds of the thin part of the brisket of beef and half a
pound of gravy beef in a stewpan, with two quarts of water, a little
thyme, marjoram, parsley, whole pepper and salt, a sufficient quantity,
and an onion; let it stew six hours or more; then add carrots, turnips,
(cut with a machine) and celery cut small, which have all been
previously boiled; let the vegetables be stewed with the beef one hour.
Just before you take it off the fire, put in some boiled cabbage chopped
small, some pickled cucumbers and walnuts sliced, some cucumber liquor,
and a little walnut liquor. Thicken the sauce with a lump of butter
rolled in flour. Strew the cut vegetables over the top of the meat.


_Cold Beef, to dress._

Slice it as thin as possible; slice, also, an onion or shalot; squeeze
on it the juice of a lemon or two; then beat it between two plates, as
you do cucumbers. When it is very well beaten, and tastes sharp of the
lemon, put it into the dish, in which it is to be served; pick out the
onion, and strew over it some fine shred parsley and fine bread crumbs;
then pour on it oil and mustard well mixed; garnish with sliced lemon.


_Cold Boiled Beef, to dress._

When your rump or brisket of beef has been well boiled in plain water,
about an hour before you serve it up take it out of the water, and put
it in a pot just large enough to contain it. There let it stew, with a
little of its own liquor, salt, basil, and laurel; and, having drained,
put it into the dish on which it is to be served for table, and pour
over it a sauce, which you must have previously ready, made with gravy,
salt, whole pepper, and a dash of vinegar, thickened over the stove with
the yolks of three eggs or more, according to the size of the beef and
the quantity of sauce wanted. Then cover beef and all with finely grated
bread; baste it with butter, and brown it with a salamander.


_Cold Beef, to pot._

Cut the beef small; add to it some melted butter, two anchovies well
washed and boned, a little Jamaica pepper beat very fine. Beat them well
together in a marble mortar till the meat is yellow; then put it into
pots, and cover it with clarified butter.


_Beef Steaks to broil._

When your steak is nearly broiled, chop some large onions, as fine as
possible, and cover the steak thickly with it, the last time you turn
it, letting it broil till fit to send to table, when the onion should
quite cover the steak. Pour good gravy in the dish to moisten it.


_Beef Steaks and Oysters._

Put two dozen oysters into a stewpan with their own liquor; when it
boils add a spoonful of water; when the oysters are done drain them in a
sieve, and let the liquor settle; then pour it off clear into another
vessel; beard them, and add a pint of jelly gravy to the liquor; add a
piece of butter and two spoonfuls of flour to thicken it. Let this boil
fifteen minutes; then throw in the oysters, and let it stand. Take a
beef-steak, pare it neatly round, and dress it as usual; when done, lay
it on a hot dish, and pour the sauce and oysters over it.


_Rump Steaks broiled, with Onion Gravy._

Peel and slice two large onions; put them into a stewpan with two
table-spoonfuls of water; set it on a slow fire till the water is boiled
away and the onions have become a little brown. Add half a pint of good
broth; boil the onions till tender; strain the broth from them, and chop
them fine; thicken with flour and butter, and season with mushroom
ketchup, pepper, and salt; put the onions in, and boil it gently for
five minutes: pour the gravy over a broiled rump-steak.


_Beef Steaks, to stew._

Pepper and salt two fine rump steaks; lay them in a stewpan with a few
cloves, some mace, an onion, one anchovy, a bundle of sweet herbs, a
gill of white wine, and a little butter mixed with flour; cover them
close, stew them very gently till they are tender, and shake the pan
round often to keep them from sticking. Take them carefully out, flour
and fry them of a nice brown in fresh butter, and put them in a dish. In
the mean time strain off the gravy from the fat out of the frying-pan,
and put it in the sauce, with a dozen oysters blanched, and a little of
the oyster liquor; give it a boil up, pour it over the steaks, and
garnish with horseradish. You may fry them first and then stew them; put
them in a dish, and strain the sauce over them without any oysters, as a
common dish.


_Another way._

Beat three pounds of rump steaks; put them in a stewpan, with a pint of
water, the same quantity of small beer, six cloves, a large onion, a
bunch of sweet-herbs, a carrot, a turnip, pepper, and salt. Stew this
very gently, closely covered, for four or five hours; but take care the
meat does not go to rags, by being done too fast. Take up the meat, and
strain the gravy over it. Have turnips cut into balls, and carrots into
shapes, and put them over the meat.


_Beef Olives._

Take a rump of beef, cut into steaks, about five inches long and not
half an inch thick. Lay on some good forcemeat, made with veal; roll
them, and tie them round once or twice, to keep them in a neat shape.
Mix some crumbs of bread, egg, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt;
fry them brown; have ready some good gravy, with a few truffles, morels,
and mushrooms, boiled together. Pour it into the dish and send them to
table, after taking off the string that tied them in shape.


_Another way._

Cut steaks from the inside of the sirloin, about an inch thick, six
inches long, and four or five broad: beat and rub them over with yolk of
egg; strew on bread crumbs, parsley chopped, lemon-peel shred, pepper
and salt, and chopped suet. Roll them up tight, skewer them; fry or
brown them in a Dutch oven; stew them in some beef broth or gravy until
tender. Thicken the gravy with a little flour; add ketchup, and a little
lemon juice, and, to enrich it, add pickled mushrooms, hard yolks of
eggs, and forcemeat balls.


_Pickle for Beef._

To four gallons of water put a sufficient quantity of common salt; when
quite dissolved, to bear an egg, four ounces of saltpetre, two ounces of
bay salt, and half a pound of coarse sugar. Boil this pickle for twenty
minutes, skim it well, and strain it. When quite cold, put in your beef,
which should be quite covered with the pickle, and in nine days it will
be fit for use; or you may keep it three months, and it will not be too
salt. The pickle must be boiled and well skimmed at the end of six
weeks, and every month afterwards; it will then keep three months in
summer and much longer in winter.


_Beef, to salt._

Into four gallons of water put one pound and a half of coarse brown
sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and six pounds of bay salt; boil and
skim as long as any scum rises. When cold, put in the meat, which must
be quite covered with pickle: once in two months boil up the pickle
again, skimming carefully. Add in the boiling two ounces of coarse
sugar, half a pound of bay salt, and the same pickle will be good for
twelve months. It is incomparable for hung beef, hams, or neats'
tongues. When you take them out of this pickle, clean, dry, and put them
in a paper bag, and hang them up in a dry place.

Pork may be pickled in the same manner.


_Beef, to salt._

Eight pounds of salt, six ounces of saltpetre, one pound and a half of
brown sugar, four gallons of water; boil all together, skim and put on
the beef when cold; the beef to be kept under the pickle with a weight.


_Beef, to dry._

Salt it in the same way as your hams; keep it in your pickle a fortnight
or three weeks, according to its size; hang it up to dry for a few days;
then have it smoked the same as hams.


_Hung Beef._ No. 1.

Take a round, ribs, rump, or sirloin; let it lie in common salt for a
month, and well cover it with the brine. Rub a little saltpetre over it
two or three days before it is hung up; observing, before it is put up
to dry, to strew it over with bran or oatmeal, to keep it from the dust;
or, which will answer the same purpose, wrap it up in strong coarse
paper. It is not to be smoked; only hang it up in the kitchen, and not
too near the fire. The time of hanging to dry must be regulated by the
quantity of air in which it is suspended, or left to the discretion of
the person who has the care of it. The time which it must lie in water
before dressing depends upon the driness of the meat. Half boil it in
simmering water, and afterwards roast. It must not be cut till cold.


_Hung Beef._ No. 2.

Take the under-cliff of a small buttock of beef, two ounces of common
salt, and one ounce of saltpetre, well beaten together: put to it half a
pint of vinegar with a sprig of thyme. Rub the beef with this pickle
every morning for six days, and let it lie in it. Then dry it well with
a cloth, and hang it up in the chimney for a fortnight. It must be made
perfectly dry before it will be fit for eating; it should also be kept
in a dry place.


_Hung Beef._ No. 3.

Take the tenderest part of beef, and let it hang in the cellar as long
as you can, taking care that it is not in the least tainted. Take it
down, wash it well in sugar and water. Dry six-pennyworth of saltpetre
and two pounds of bay salt, and pound them fine; mix with it three large
spoonfuls of brown sugar; rub your beef thoroughly with it. Take common
salt, sufficient according to the size of the beef to salt it; let it
lie closely covered up until the salts are entirely dissolved, which
will be in seven or eight days. Turn it every day, the under part
uppermost, and so on for a fortnight; then hang it where it may have a
little warmth of the fire. It may hang in the kitchen a fortnight. When
you use it, boil it in hay and pump water very tender: it will keep
boiled two or three months, rubbing it with a greasy cloth, or putting
it for two or three minutes into boiling water to take off any
mouldiness.


_Beef for scraping._

To four pounds of lean buttock of beef take one ounce of saltpetre and
some common salt, in which let the meat lie for a month; then hang it to
dry for three weeks. Boil it for grating when wanted.


_Italian Beef._

Take a round of beef, about fifteen or eighteen pounds; rub it well with
three ounces of saltpetre, and let it lie for four hours in it. Then
season it very well with beaten mace, pepper, cloves, and salt
sufficient; let it then lie in that seasoning for twelve days; wash it
well, and put it in the pot in which you intend to bake it, with one
pound of suet shred fine, and thrown under and over it. Cover your pot
and paste it down: let it stew six hours in its own liquor, and eat it
cold.


_Red Beef._

Twelve pounds of ribs of beef boned, four ounces of bay salt, three
ounces of saltpetre; beat them fine, and mix with half a pound of coarse
sugar, two pounds of common salt, and a handful of juniper berries
bruised. Rub the beef well with this mixture, and turn it every day
about three weeks or a month; bake it in a coarse paste.


_Another way._

Take a piece of brisket of beef, about sixteen or eighteen pounds; make
the pickle for it as follows:--saltpetre and bay salt, one pound and a
half of each, one pound of coarse brown sugar, and six pounds of common
salt; add to these three gallons of water. Set it on the fire and keep
it stirring, lest the salts should burn; as it boils skim it well till
clear: boil it about an hour and a half. When it is quite cold, put in
the beef, and let it lie in a pan that will hold it properly; turn it
every day, and let it remain in about a fortnight. Take it out, and just
wash it in clean water, and put it into the pot in which you stew it
with some weak broth; then add slices of fat bacon, fat of veal, any
pieces of fat meat, the more fat the better, especially of veal, also a
pint of brandy, a full pint of wine, a handful of bay-leaves, a few
cloves, and some blades of mace, about two large carrots, one dozen of
large onions, a good bundle of sweet-herbs, some parsley, and two or
three turnips. Stew it exceedingly gently for eight hours. The broth
should cover the meat while it is stewing, and keep the slices of fat as
much over it as you can; the seldomer you uncover the pot the better.
When you think it sufficiently tender, which try with your finger, take
it off, and, though it may appear tender enough to fall to pieces, it
will harden sufficiently when it grows cold. It should remain in the pot
just as it is taken off the fire till it is very nearly if not quite
cold. It will eat much better for being so left, and you will also not
run the risk of breaking the beef in pieces, as you would by removing it
whilst hot.


_Collar of Beef._

Bone the navel and navel round; make sufficient pickle to cover it, as
strong as to bear an egg, with bay salt; beat two ounces of saltpetre
very fine, and strew half of it on your beef before you lay it in your
pickle. Then lay it in an earthen pan, and press it down in the liquor
with a weight, as it must be all covered. Let it remain thus for four or
five days, stirring it however once every day. Take it out, let the
brine drain from it, lay it on a table, and season it with nutmeg,
pepper, cloves, and mace, some parsley, thyme, and sweet marjoram, of
each a little, and eight anchovies sliced; roll it up with these like
brawn, and bind it quite fast with strong tape. Then put it into a pan,
deep enough for it to stand upright; fill the pan with water, and cover
it with paste. Make your oven very hot, put it in, and let it remain
there five or six hours; then take it out, and, having removed the tape,
roll it in a cloth; hang it up till cold. If you think it not salt
enough, before you bake it, put a little salt with your spice and herbs,
for baking in water abates much of its saltness.


_Another._

Salt a flank of beef with white salt, and let it lie for forty-eight
hours. Wash it, and hang it in the wind to dry for twenty-four hours.
Then take pepper, salt, cloves, saltpetre, all beaten fine, and mix them
together; rub the beef all over; roll it up hard, and tie it fast with
tape. Put it in a pan, with a few bay-leaves, and four pounds of butter.
Cover the pot with rye paste, and bake it with household bread.


_Bisquet, to make._

Cut some slips of white paper; butter and place them at the bottom and
sides of the pan you make your bisquet in; then cut thin collops of
veal, or whatever meat you make it of; lay them on the paper, and cover
them with forcemeat. Put in anything else you like, carrots, &c.; close
the top with forcemeat and veal, and paper again; put it in the oven or
stove, and, when done, and you want to dish it, turn the pan upside down
from the dish; take the paper off, and pour good gravy on it.


_Boar's Head, to dress whole._

When the head is cut off, the neck part must be boned, and the tongue
taken out. The brains also must be taken out on the inside, so as not to
break the bone and skin on the outside. When boned, singe the hair off,
and clean it; then put it for four or five days into a red pickle made
of saltpetre, bay salt, common salt, and coarse brown sugar, rubbing the
pickle in every day. When taken out of the pickle, lay the tongue in the
centre of the neck or collar; close the meat together as close as you
can, and bind it with strong tape up to the ears, the same as you would
do brawn; then put it into a pot or kettle, the neck downward, and fill
the pot with good broth and Rhenish wine, in the proportion of one
bottle of wine to three pints of broth, till it is covered a little
above the ears. Season the wine and broth with small bunches of
sweet-herbs, such as basil, winter savory, and marjoram, bay-leaves,
shalots, celery, carrots, turnips, parsley-roots, with different kinds
of spices. Set it over the fire to boil; when it boils, put it on one
side to boil gently, till the head is tender. Take it out of the liquor,
and put it into an earthen pan; skim all the fat off the liquor; strain
it through a sieve into the head; put it by until it is quite cold, and
then it will be fit for use.


_Brawn, to keep._

Put some bran and three handfuls of salt into a kettle of water; boil
and strain it through a sieve, and, when cold, put your brawn into it.


_Hog's head like Brawn._

Wash it well; boil it till the bones will come out; when cold, put the
inside of the cheek together with salt between; put the ears round the
sides. Put the cheeks into a cloth, press them into a sieve, or anything
round; lay on a weight for two days. Have ready a pickle of salt and
water, with about a pint of malt, boiled together; when cold, put in the
head.


_Mock Brawn._

Take two pair of neats' feet; boil them very tender, and take the flesh
clean from the bones. Boil the belly piece of pork till nearly done,
then bone it, and roll the meat of the feet up very tight in the pork.
Take a strong cloth, with some coarse tape; roll it round very tight;
tie it up in the cloth; boil it till it is so tender that a skewer may
go through it; let it be hung in a cloth till it is quite cold; after
which put it into some sousing liquor, and keep it for use.


_Cabbage, farced._

Take a fine white-heart cabbage, about as big as a quarter of a peck,
lay it in water two or three hours, half boil it, put it in a colander
to drain, then cut out the heart, but take very great care not to break
off any of the outside leaves. Fill it with forcemeat made thus:--take a
pound of veal, half a pound of bacon, fat and lean together; cut them
small, and beat them fine in a mortar, with the yolks of four eggs
boiled hard; season with pepper and salt, a little beaten mace, a very
little lemon-peel, some parsley chopped fine, a very little thyme, and
three anchovies. When these are beat fine, take the crumb of a stale
roll, some mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, and the heart of the
cabbage which you cut out. Chop it very fine; mix all together with the
yolk of an egg; fill the hollow of the cabbage, and tie it round with
thread. Lay some slices of bacon in the bottom of a stewpan, and upon
these some thin slices of coarse beef, about one pound: put in the
cabbage, cover it close, and let it stew gently over a slow fire, until
the bacon begins to stick to the bottom of the pan. Shake in a little
flour; then put in a quart of good broth, an onion stuck with cloves,
two blades of mace, some whole pepper, a little bundle of sweet-herbs;
cover close, and let it stew gently an hour and a half. Put in a glass
of red wine, give it a boil, and take it up; lay it in a dish, and
strain the gravy over it, untying the packthread first. This is a very
good dish, and makes the next day an excellent hash, with a veal steak
nicely boiled and laid on it.


_Calf's Head._

Scald the hair off; trim and pare it, and make it look as neat as
possible. Take out the bones, and have ready palates boiled tender,
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, oysters just scalded, and very good
forcemeat: stuff all this into the head, and sew it close in a cloth.
Boil it gently for full three hours. Make a strong good gravy for sauce.
Garnish with fried bacon.


_Calf's Head, to dress like Turtle._

The wool must be scalded off in the same manner as the hair is taken off
a little pig, which may be done at the butcher's; then wash and parboil
it; cut the meat from the bones, and put it in a saucepan, with as much
of the broth as will just cover it. Put in half a tea-spoonful of
cayenne pepper, and some common pepper and salt, a large onion, and a
faggot of sweet-herbs; take out the herbs and the onion before it
breaks. About half an hour before it is done, put three quarters of a
pint of white or raisin wine; have ready the yolks of six or eight eggs
boiled hard, which you must make into small balls, and put in just
before you serve it up. It will take two hours and a half, or perhaps
three hours doing, over a slow fire.


_Calf's Head, to hash._ No. 1.

Let the calf's head be washed dean, and boiled tender; then cut the meat
off one half of the head in small slices. To make the sauce, take some
parsley, thyme, and a very little onion, let them be chopped fine; then
pass them in a stewpan over the fire, with some butter, till tender. Add
some flour, a very little pepper and salt, and some good strong broth,
according to your quantity of meat; let it boil, then skim it, put the
meat into it, and add a little lemon-juice and a little white wine; let
all boil together about ten minutes. There may be some force-meat balls
added, if liked. The other half of the head must be scored like
diamonds, cross and across; then rub it with some oiled butter and yolk
of egg; mix some chopped parsley and thyme, pepper, salt, a little
nutmeg, and some bread crumbs; strew the head all over with this; broil
it a nice light brown, and put it on the hash when dished. Scald the
brains, and cut them in four pieces; rub them with yolk of egg, then let
them be crumbed, with the same crumbs and herbs as the head was done
with, and fried a light brown; lay them round the dish with a few slices
of bacon or ham fried. The brains may be done, to be sent up alone on a
plate, as follows:--Let the brains be washed and skinned; let them be
boiled in broth, about twenty-five minutes; make a little white sauce of
some butter, flour, salt, a little cream, and a little good broth; let
it just boil; then pick a little green sage, a little parsley picked
very small, and scalded till tender; the brains, parsley, and sage, must
be strained off, and put into the white sauce, and let it come to a
boil, just before you put them on the dish to send up.


_Calf's Head, to hash._ No. 2.

Take half a calf's head, cover it with water in a large saucepan, and
boil it till the meat comes from the bone. Cut it into pieces; put it
into some of the liquor in which the head was boiled, and let it stew
till it becomes thick. Add a little salt and mace, and put it into a
mould.


_Calf's Head, to hash._ No. 3.

Your calf's head being half boiled and cooled, cut it in thin slices,
and fry it in a pan of brown butter; put it into your tossing pan with
gravy; stew it till tender; toss it up with burnt butter, or butter
rolled in flour. Garnish with forcemeat balls, and fritters, made of the
brains, mixed up with eggs, a little cream, a dust of flour, nutmeg, and
a little parsley, boiled and chopped fine. Mix them all well together,
and fry them in little cakes; put a few bits of bacon and lemon round
the dish.


_Calf's Head, to hash._ No. 4.

Half boil the head; cut it into round pieces; season with nutmeg, salt,
pepper, and a large onion. Save all the gravy, put in a pint of white
wine, a quarter of a pound of butter, and four spoonfuls of oyster
liquor: let it stew with the meat, not too fast: thicken it with a
little butter and a dozen of oysters, and, when dished, add some rolled
bacon, forcemeat balls, and the brains fried in thin cakes, very brown,
and the size of a crown-piece, laid round the dish. Garnish with lemon
and pickled mushrooms; lemon pickle is an addition.


_Calf's Head, to hash._ No. 5.

Have the head well cleaned; boil it well, cut in slices half of the
head, and have some good ragout of forcemeat, truffles, mushrooms,
morels, and artichoke bottoms, also some veal sweet-herbs. Season your
ragout, and throw in your slices, a bit of garlic and parsley, with some
thyme, and squeeze a lemon in it, but be cautious to have it skimmed
well. Take the other part of the head, and score it like diamonds;
season with salt and pepper, and rub it over with an egg and some crumbs
of bread. Then broil it, pour the hash into the dish; let the half head
lie in the middle, and cut and set off the brains afterwards in slices.
Fry bacon, and lay slices round the dish with sliced lemon.


_Calf's Head fricassee._

Clean well a calf's head, boil it and cut in square pieces of about an
inch; put half a pint of its own liquor, and mix it well with some
mushrooms, sweetbreads, yolks of eggs, artichoke bottoms, and cream.
Season with nutmeg and mace, and squeeze in a lemon: but serve it up
hot.


_Calf's Head, to pickle._

Take out the bones and clean the head carefully: wash it well with eggs,
seasoning it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, thyme, and parsley. Put some
forcemeat on it, and roll it up. Boil it tender; take it up, lay it in
sturgeon-pickle for four days; and if you please you may cut it in
pieces as you would sturgeon.


_Calf's Liver._

Lay it for a few hours in milk, then dry and fry it in butter.


_Cauliflowers, with White Sauce._

Boil the cauliflowers in small pieces till tender; drain them in a
sieve; when quite dry lay them in a dish; season the sauce with a little
pepper and salt, and pour it pretty thick over them.


_Celery, to stew._

Cut and trim a dozen heads of celery; put them in cold water to blanch;
stew them in a little butter, salt, and water. When done enough they
should be quite soft, but not broken. Drain them, and have ready a rich
white sauce, the same that is used for boiled chickens, only without
truffles or mushrooms; pour this sauce over the celery, and serve hot.


_Another way._

Take a dozen white heads of celery, cut about two inches long, wash them
clean, and put them in a stewpan, with a pint of gravy, a glass of white
wine, a bundle of sweet-herbs, pepper, and salt: cover close, and stew
them till they are tender. Then take out the sweet-herbs; put in a piece
of butter mixed with flour; let it stew till it is thick, and dish it
up.


_Celery à la Crême._

Take a dozen white heads of celery, cut about two inches long; wash them
very clean, and boil them in water till they are very tender; have ready
half a pint of cream, a little butter mixed with flour, a little nutmeg,
and salt; boil it up till thick and smooth; put in the celery, give it a
toss or two, and dish it up.


_Scotch Collops._

Take a piece of the fillet of veal, as much as will cut into fifteen
pieces, of the size and thickness of a crown-piece; shake a little flour
over it; put a little butter into a frying-pan, and melt it; fry the
slices of veal quick till they are brown, and lay them in a dish near
the fire. Then prepare a sauce thus: take a little butter in a stewpan
and melt it; add a table-spoonful of flour; stir it about till it is as
smooth as cream; put in half a pint each of beef and veal jelly, cayenne
pepper and salt, a pinch of each, and one glass of white wine,
twenty-four pieces of truffles the size of a shilling, and a
table-spoonful of mushrooms: wash them thoroughly from vinegar; squeeze
the juice of half a lemon; stew the sauce gently for one hour; then
throw in the veal, and stew it all together for five minutes. Serve
quite hot, laying the veal regularly in the dish.


_Another way._

Cut the lean part of a leg of veal into thin collops; beat them with the
back of a knife; season with pepper and salt, shred thyme and parsley,
and flour them well. Reserve some of the meat to make balls. Taking as
much suet as meat, shred it small; then beat it in a mortar; season with
pepper, salt, shred herbs, a little shred onion, and a little allspice.
Put in an egg or two, according to the quantity. Make balls, and fry
them in good dripping; keep them warm. Then fry your collops with
clarified butter, till they are brown enough; and, while they are
warming in the pan, put in your sauce, which must be made thus:--have
some good glaze, a little white wine, a good piece of butter, and two
yolks of eggs. Put your balls to the collops; flour and make them very
hot in the pan; put in your sauce, shake them well, and let them boil.
If you would have them white, put strong broth instead of glaze and half
a pint of cream.


_Scotch Collops, brown._

Cut your collops thin and from the fillet. Season them with salt and
pepper, and fry them off quick and brown. Brown a piece of butter
thickened with flour, and put in some good gravy, mushrooms, morels,
truffles, and forcemeat balls, with sweetbread dried. Squeeze in a
lemon, and let the whole boil till of a proper thickness. Then put in
your collops, but do not let them boil; toss them up quick, and serve
up.


_Collops, White._ No. 1.

Take a small slice of veal, cut thin slices from it, and beat them out
very thin: butter a frying-pan very lightly, place them in it, and pass
them on the fire, but not to get any colour. Trim them round, and put
them into white sauce.


_Collops, White._ No. 2.

Cut the veal very thin; put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter and
one clove of shalot; toss it in a pan for a few minutes. Have ready to
put to it some cream, more or less according to the quantity of veal, a
piece of butter mixed with flour, the yolk of an egg, a little nutmeg,
and a tea-spoonful of lemon-pickle. Stir it over the fire till it is
thick enough, but do not let it boil. If you choose forcemeat balls,
have them ready boiled in water, and take out the shalot before you
dish up: ten minutes will do them.


_Collops, White._ No. 3.

Hack and cut your collops well; season with pepper and salt, and fry
them quick of a pale colour in a little bit of butter. Squeeze in a
lemon: put in half a pint of cream and the yolks of four eggs. Toss them
up quick, and serve them hot.


_Collops, to mince._

Chop some beef as fine as possible; the under part of roasted beef
without any fat is best. Put some onions, pepper, and salt to it. Then
put a little butter in the frying-pan; when it is melted, put in the
meat, and stew it well. Add a cupful of gravy; if you have none, water
will do. Just before it is done put in a little vinegar.


_Collops of cold beef._

Take off all the fat from the inside of a sirloin of beef; cut it neatly
into thin collops, about the size of a crown or half-crown piece, as you
like for size, and cut them round. Slice an onion very small; boil the
gravy that came from the beef when roasted, first clearing it of all the
fat, with a little water; season it with pepper, and, instead of salt,
anchovies dissolved in walnut ketchup, or the liquor from pickled
walnuts, and a bundle of sweet-herbs. Let this boil before you put in
the collops; put them in with a good piece of butter rolled in a little
flour; shake it round to thicken it, and let it do no longer than till
the collops are thoroughly heated, lest they be hard. This does better
than fresh meat. Serve it hot with pickles, or slices of stewed
cucumbers, cut round, like the meat, and placed alternately with it
round the dish.


_Cucumbers, to stew._

Pare twelve cucumbers, and slice them rather thicker than for eating;
put them to drain, and lay them in a coarse cloth till dry. Flour and
fry them brown in butter; then put to them some gravy, a little claret,
some pepper, cloves, and mace; let them stew a little; then roll a bit
of butter in flour, and toss them up. A sufficient quantity of onion
should be sliced thin, and done like the cucumbers.


_Curry Powder, from a Resident in India._ No. 1.

Half a pound of coriander seed, two ounces of black pepper, two ounces
of cummin seed, one ounce of turmeric, one ounce and half of ground
rice: all the above must be finely pounded; add cayenne to your taste.
Mix all well together; put it into a dish close before the fire; roast
it well for three or four hours; and, when quite cold, put it into a
bottle for use.


_Curry Powder._ No. 2.

Thirteen ounces of coriander seed,* two ounces of fenugreek seed,* (if
not liked this may be omitted,) one ounce of cayenne pepper, or powdered
capsicums, six ounces of pale-coloured turmeric,* five ounces of black
pepper. Pound the whole very fine; set it in a Dutch oven before the
fire to dry, turning it often; when cold put it into a dry bottle; cork,
and keep it in a dry place. So prepared, curry-powder will keep for many
years.

The ingredients marked thus * may be procured at Apothecaries' Hall, or
at any wholesale chemist's.


_Curry Powder._ No. 3.

One pound of turmeric, one pound of coriander seed, one pound of ginger,
six ounces of cardamom, four ounces of cummin, one ounce of long pepper,
pounded and mixed together. Cayenne pepper may also be added.


_Curry, Indian._ No. 1.

Curry may be made of chicken, rabbits, lobster, or of any species of
fish, flesh, or fowl. Fry the material with onions, as for mulligatawny,
a small piece of garlic, eight almonds, and eight sweet chesnuts. Put it
all into a stewpan, with a spoonful or two of curry-powder, a large
tea-cupful of strong good gravy, and a large piece of butter. Let the
whole stew gently till the gravy becomes very thick and is nearly
evaporated.

Particular attention should be paid in sending this dish up hot, and
always with plenty of rice in a separate dish; most people like pickle
with it.


_Curry._ No. 2.

Chop one or two onions very fine; put them into a stewpan with some
butter, and let them remain on a slow fire till they are well done,
taking care not to let them burn. Pour off the butter: put in one
dessert spoonful of powder and a little gravy; stir it about till it is
well mixed; set it on a slow fire till it is all sufficiently done. Put
in a little lemon-juice; when nearly done, thicken the gravy with flour.
Let the rice be very well picked and afterwards cleansed; it ought to be
washed in several waters, and kept in water till it is going to be
boiled. Have the meat or fish ready, pat it into the stewpan, and stir
it about till it is well mixed. The rice must be boiled twenty minutes
quickly, and the scum taken off; the water to be thrown off and the
saucepan uncovered till it is dry enough. Meat used for this curry must
be previously fried.


_Curry._ No. 3.

Fry onions, ginger, garlic, and meat, in one ounce of butter, of a light
brown; stew it with a table-spoonful of curry-powder and three pints of
water, till it comes to a pint and a half. A good half hour before
dinner, put in greens, such as brocoli, cauliflower, sliced apple, and
mango, the juice of one lemon, grated ginger, and cayenne, with two
spoonfuls of cream, and a little flour to thicken it.


_Curry._ No. 4.

Skin and prepare two chickens as for a fricassee; wash them very clean,
and stew them in a pint and a half of water for about five minutes.
Strain off the liquor, and put the chickens in a clean dish. Slice three
large onions, and fry them in about two ounces of butter. Put in the
chickens, and fry them together till they are brown. Take a quarter of
an ounce of curry-powder, and salt to your palate, and strew over the
chickens while they are frying; then pour in the liquor in which they
were first stewed, and let them stew again for half an hour. Add a
quarter of a pint of cream and the juice of two lemons. Have rice boiled
dry to eat with it. Rabbits do as well as chickens.


_Curry._ No. 5.

Take two chickens, or in the same proportion of any other kind of flesh,
fish, or fowl; cut the meat small; strew a little salt and pepper over
it; add a small quantity of onion fried in butter; put one
table-spoonful of curry-powder to your meat and onions; mix them well
together with about three quarters of a pint of water. Put the whole in
a stewpan covered close; let it stew half an hour before you open the
pan; then add the juice of two lemons, or an equal quantity of any other
souring. Let it stew again till the gravy appears very thick and adheres
to the meat. If the meat floats in the gravy, the curry will not be
considered as well made. Salt to your palate.


_Curry._ No. 6.

Mix together a quart of good gravy, two spoonfuls of curry-powder, two
of soy, a gill of red wine, a little cayenne pepper, and the juice of a
lemon. Cut a breast of veal in square pieces, and put it in a stewpan
with a pint of gravy; stew slowly for a quarter of an hour; add the
rest of the gravy with the ingredients, and stew till done.


_Curry._ No. 7.

Take a fowl, fish, or any meat you like; cut it in slices; cut up two
good sized onions very fine; half fry your fowl, or meat, with the
onions, in a quarter of a pound of butter. Add two table-spoonfuls of
curry-powder, fry it a little longer, and stew it well; then add any
acid you like, a little salt, and half a pint of water. Let all stew
together until the meat is done.


_Farcie, to make._

Take the tender part of a fillet of veal, free from sinew, and mince it
fine, with a piece of the fat of ham, some chopped thyme, basil, and
marjoram, dried, and a little seasoning according to the palate. Put the
whole in a stewpan, and keep stirring it till it is warm through; then
put it on a sieve to drain. When the liquor has run from it, pound the
farcie, while warm, in a mortar, adding the drained liquor, by degrees,
till the whole is again absorbed in the meat, which must be pounded very
fine. Put it in an earthen pot, and steam it for half an hour with a
slice of fat ham; cover over the pot to prevent the steam from getting
to it; when cold, pour on some good jelly made of the lean of ham and
veal, and take care to pour it on cold (that is, when the jelly is just
dissolved,) otherwise it will raise the farcie. When livers are to be
had, put a third of them with the ham and veal, as above directed, and
the farcie will be better.


_Forcemeat, to make._ No. 1.

Chop small a pound of veal, parsley, thyme, a small onion, and a pound
of beef; grate the inside of three French rolls, and put all these
together, with pepper, salt, soup, and nutmeg, seasoning it to your
taste; add as many eggs as will make it of a proper stiffness, and roll
them into balls.


_Forcemeat._ No. 2.

Take half a pound of the lean of a leg of veal, with the skin picked
off, cut it into small pieces, and mince it very small; shred very fine
a pound of beef-suet and grate a nutmeg into both; beat half as much
mace into it with cloves, pepper, and salt, a little rosemary, thyme,
sweet marjoram, and winter savory. Put all these to the meat in a
mortar, and beat all together, till it is smooth and will work easily
with your hands, like paste. Break two new laid eggs to some white bread
crumbs, and make them into a paste with your hands, frying it in butter.
If you choose, leave out the herbs.


_Forcemeat._ No. 3.

A pound of veal, full its weight in beef suet, and a bit of bacon, shred
all together; beat it in a mortar very fine; season with sweet-herbs,
pepper, and salt. When you roll it up to fry, add the yolks of two or
three eggs to bind it; you may add oysters or marrow.


_Fricandeau._

Take a piece of veal next to the udder; separate the skin, and flatten
the meat on a clean cloth; make slits in the bottom part, that it may
soak up seasoning, and lard the top very thick and even. Take a stewpan
that will receive the veal without confining it; put at the bottom three
carrots cut in slices, two large onions sliced, a bunch of parsley, the
roots cut small, a little mace, pepper, thyme, and a bay-leaf; then lay
some slices of very fat bacon, so as entirely to cover the vegetables,
and make a pile of bacon in the shape of a tea-cup. Lay the veal over
this bacon; powder a little salt over it; then put sufficient broth, and
some beef jelly, lowered with warm water, to cover the bottom of the
stewpan without reaching the veal. Lay a quantity of fine charcoal hot
on the cover of the pan, keeping a very little fire beneath; as soon as
it begins to boil, remove the stewpan, and place it over a very slow and
equal fire for three hours and a half, removing the fire from the top;
baste it frequently with liquor. When it has stewed the proper time, try
if it is done by putting in a skewer, which will then go, in and out
easily. Put a great quantity of fire again on the top of the stewpan
till the bacon of the larding becomes quite firm; next remove the veal,
and keep it near the fire; reduce the liquor to deep rich gravy to glaze
it, which pour over the top only where it is larded; and, when it is
served, put the fricandeau in a dish, and the puré of spinach, which is
to be ready according to the receipt given in the proper place, (See
Spinach to stew,) to lay round the dish.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 1.

Take a ham of young pork; sprinkle it with salt, and let it lie
twenty-four hours. Having wiped it very dry, rub it well with a pound of
coarse brown sugar, a pound of juniper berries, a quarter of a pound of
saltpetre, half a pint of bay salt, and three pints of common salt,
mixed together, and dried in an iron pot over the fire, stirring them
the whole time. After this, take it off the fire, when boiled, and let
it lie in an earthen glazed pan three weeks, but it must be often turned
in the time, and basted with the brine in which it lies. Then hang it up
till it has done dripping; and dry it in a chimney with deal saw-dust
and juniper berries.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 2.

For two hams, take half a pound of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre,
two ounces of sal prunella, half a pound of brown sugar, half a pound of
juniper berries, half a pound of common salt; beat them all, and boil
them in two quarts of strong beer for half an hour very gently. Leave
out one ounce of saltpetre to rub the hams over-night. Put them into the
pickle, and let them lie a month or five weeks, basting them every day.
Pickle in the winter, and dry in wood smoke; let them hang up the
chimney a fortnight.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 3.

Hang up a ham two days; beat it well on the fleshy side with a
rollingpin; rub in an ounce of saltpetre, finely powdered, and let it
lie a day. Then mix together an ounce of sal prunella with two large
handfuls of common salt, one handful of bay salt, and a pound of coarse
sugar, and make them hot in a stewpan. While hot, rub it well in with
two handfuls more of common salt; then let it lie till it melts to
brine. Turn the meat twice every day for three weeks, and dry it like
bacon.


_Ham, to cure--the Thorpe way._ No. 4.

The following are the proportions for two hams, or pigs' faces: Boil one
pound of common salt, three ounces of bay salt, two ounces and a half of
saltpetre, and one pound of the coarsest brown sugar, in a quart of
strong old beer. When this pickle is cold, well rub the hams or faces
with it every day for a fortnight. Smoke them with horse litter for two
hours; then hang them to dry in a chimney where wood is burned for a
fortnight, after which, hang them in a dry place till wanted for use.
They are not so good if used under eight months or after a year old.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 5.

For one large ham take one pound of coarse sugar, one pound common salt,
a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and two ounces of bay salt, boiled in
a quart of strong ale, or porter. When cold put it to your ham; and let
it lie in the pickle three weeks, turning the ham every day.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 6.

Put two ounces of sal prunella, a pound of bay salt, four pounds of
white salt, a pound of brown sugar, half a pound of saltpetre, to one
gallon of water; boil it a quarter of an hour, keeping, it well skimmed,
and, when cold, pour it from the sediment into the vessel in which you
steep, and let the hams remain in the pickle about a month; the tongues
a fortnight. In the same manner Dutch beef may be made by letting it
lie in the pickle for a month, and eight or ten days for collared beef;
dry them in a stove or chimney. Tongues may be cured in the same manner.


_Ham, to cure._ No 7.

Four gallons of spring water, two pounds of bay salt, half a pound of
common salt, two pounds of treacle, to be boiled a quarter of an hour,
skimmed well, and poured hot on the hams. Let them be turned in the
pickle every day, and remain three weeks or a month; tongues may be
cured in the same way.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 8.

One ounce of pepper, two of saltpetre, one pound of bay salt, one ounce
of sal prunella, one pound of common salt. Rub these in well, and let
the ham lie a week after rubbing; then rub over it one pound of treacle
or coarse sugar. Let it lie three weeks longer; take it up, steep it
twenty-four hours in cold water, and then hang it up.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 9.

One pound of common salt, half a pound of bay salt, four ounces of
saltpetre, two ounces of black pepper; mix them together, and rub the
ham very well for four days, until the whole is dissolved. Then take one
pound and a half of treacle and rub on, and let it lie in the pickle one
month; turning it once a day. When you dress it, let the water boil
before you put it in.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 10.

Into four gallons of water put one pound and a half of the coarsest
sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and six pounds of common salt; boil it,
carefully taking off the scum till it has done rising; then let it stand
till cold. Having put the meat into the vessel in which you intend to
keep it, pour on the liquor till it is quite covered. If you wish to
keep the meat for a long time, it will be necessary once in two or three
months to boil the pickle over again, clearing off the scum as it rises,
and adding, when boiling, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a pound of
salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre; in this way the pickle will keep
good for a year. When you take the meat out of the pickle, dry it well
before it is smoked. Hams from fifteen to twenty pounds should lie in
pickle twenty-four days; small hams and tongues, fifteen days; a small
piece of beef about the same time. Hams and beef will not do in the same
pickle together. After the hams are taken out, the pickle must be boiled
again before the beef is put in.

The same process may be used for beef and tongues.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 11.

Mix one pound and a half of salt, one pound and a half of coarse sugar,
and one ounce of saltpetre, in one quart of water; set it on the fire,
and keep stirring the liquor till it boils. Skim it. When boiled about
five minutes take it off, and pour it boiling hot on the leg of pork,
which, if not quite covered, must be turned every day. Let it remain in
the pickle one month; then hang it in the chimney for six weeks. These
proportions will cure a ham of sixteen pounds. When the ham is taken out
of the pickle, the liquor may be boiled up again and poured boiling hot
upon pigs' faces. After that boil again, and pour it cold upon a piece
of beef, which will be excellent. It will then serve cold for pigs' or
sheep's tongues, which must be well washed and rubbed in a little of the
liquor and left in the remainder.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 12.

Take a ham of fifteen pounds, and wash it well with a quarter of a pint
of vinegar, mixed with a quarter of a pound of the coarsest sugar. Next
morning rub it well with three quarters of a pound of bay salt rolled,
on the lean part; baste it often every day for fourteen days, and hang
it up to dry.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 13.

Three ounces of saltpetre, bay salt and brown sugar two ounces of each,
a small quantity of cochineal; mix them all together, and warm them over
the fire. Rub the hams well with it, and cover them over with common
salt.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 14.

Take a quantity of spring water sufficient to cover the meat you design
to cure; make the pickle with an equal quantity of bay salt and common
salt; add to a pound of each one pound of coarse brown sugar, one ounce
of saltpetre, and one ounce of petre-salt; let the pickle be strong
enough to bear an egg. If you design to eat the pork in a month or six
weeks, it is best not to boil the pickle; if you intend it for the year,
the pickle must be boiled and skimmed well until it is perfectly clear;
let it be quite cold before you use it. Rub the meat that is to be
preserved with some common salt, and let it lie upon a table sloping, to
drain out all the blood; wipe it very dry with a coarse cloth before you
put it into the pickle. The proportion of the pickle may be this: four
pounds of common salt, four pounds of bay salt, three pounds of coarse
sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of petre-salt, with a
sufficient quantity of spring water to cover what you do, boiled as
directed above. Let the hams lie about six weeks in the pickle, and
then send them to be smoked. Beef, pork, and tongues, may be cured in
the same manner: ribs of beef done in this way are excellent.


_Ham, to cure._ No. 15.

Wash the ham clean; soak it in pump water for an hour; dry it well, and
rub into it the following composition: saltpetre two ounces, bay salt
nine ounces, common salt four ounces, lump sugar three ounces; but first
beat them separately into a fine powder; mix them together, dry them
before the fire, and then rub them into the ham, as hot as the hand can
bear it. Then lay the ham sloping on a table; put on it a board with
forty or fifty pounds weight; let it remain thus for five days; then
turn it, and, if any of the salt is about it, rub it in, and let it
remain with the board and weight on it for five days more; this done rub
off the salt, &c. When you intend to smoke it, hang the ham in a sugar
hogshead, over a chaffing-dish of wood embers; throw on it a handful of
juniper-berries, and over that some horse-dung, and cover the cask with
a blanket. This may be repeated two or three times the same day, and the
ham may be taken out of the hogshead the next morning. The quantity of
salt here specified is for a middle sized ham. There should not be a
hole cut in the leg, as is customary, to hang it up by, nor should it be
soaked in brine. Hams thus cured will keep for three months without
smoking, so that the whole quantity for the year may be smoked at the
same time. The ham need not be soaked in water before it is used, but
only washed clean. Instead of a chaffing-dish of coals to smoke the
hams, make a hole in the ground, and therein put the fire; it must not
be fierce: be sure to keep the mouth of the hogshead covered with a
blanket to retain the smoke.


_Westphalia Ham, to cure._ No. 1.

Cut a leg of pork to the shape of a Westphalia ham; salt it, and set it
on the fire in a skillet till dry, and put to it two ounces of saltpetre
finely beaten. The salt must be put on as hot as possible. Let it remain
a week in the salt, and then hang it up in the chimney for three weeks
or a month. Two ounces of saltpetre will be sufficient for the quantity
of salt required for one ham.


_Westphalia Ham, to cure._ No. 2.

Let the hams be very well pricked with a skewer on the wrong side,
hanging them in an airy place as long as they will keep sweet, and with
a gallon of saltpetre make a pickle, and keep stirring it till it will
bear an egg; boil and skim it and put three pounds of brown sugar to it.
Let the hams lie about a month in this pickle, which must be cold when
they are put in; turn them every day; dry them with saw-dust and
charcoal. The above is the quantity that will do for six hams.


_Westphalia Ham, to cure._ No. 3.

Rub every ham with four ounces of saltpetre. Next day put bay salt,
common salt, and coarse sugar, half a pound of each, into a quart of
stale strong beer, adding a small quantity of each of these ingredients
for every ham to be made at that time. Boil this pickle, and pour it
boiling hot over every ham. Let them lie a fortnight in it, rubbing them
well and turning them twice a day. Then smoke the ham for three days and
three nights over a fire of saw-dust and horse-litter, fresh made from
the stable every night; after which smoke them for a fortnight over a
wood fire like other bacon.


_Westphalia Ham, to cure._ No. 4.

For two hams the following proportions may be observed: wash your hams
all over with vinegar, and hang them up for two or three days. Take one
pound and a half of the brownest sugar, two ounces of saltpetre, two
ounces of bay salt, and a quart of common salt; mix them together; heat
them before the fire as hot as you can bear your hand in, and rub it
well into the hams before the fire, till they are very tender. Lay them
in a tub made long for that purpose, or a butcher's tray, that will hold
them both, one laid one way and the other the contrary way, and strew
the remainder of the ingredients over them. When the salt begins to
melt, add a pint of vinegar, and let them lie three weeks, washing them
with the liquor and turning them every day. Dry them in saw-dust smoke;
hang them in a cellar; and if they mould it will do them no harm, as
these hams require damp and not extreme driness. Juniper-berries thrown
into the fire at which they are smoked greatly improve their flavour.


_Westphalia Ham, to cure._ No. 5.

One pound of common salt, one pound of bay salt, four ounces of
saltpetre, two ounces of black pepper; pound them separately, then mix
them, and rub the ham very well until the whole is used. Rub one pound
of treacle on them; lay them in the pickle one month, turning them every
day. The quantity here specified will do for two hams. Before you hang
them up, steep them in a pail of water for twelve hours.


_Westphalia Ham, to cure._ No. 6.

Make a good brine of salt and water, sufficiently strong to bear an egg;
boil and skim it clean, and when quite cold rub the meat with sal
prunella and saltpetre mixed together. Put it in a vessel, and pour your
brine into it; and, when the ham has been in the brine about fourteen
days, take it out, drain it, and boil the brine, putting in a little
salt, and letting it boil till clear. Skim it, and when cold put in your
ham, rubbing it over with saltpetre, &c. as you did at first. Then let
your ham again lie in the brine for three weeks longer; afterwards rub
it well with bran, and have it dried by a wood fire.


_English Hams, to make like Westphalia._ No. 1.

Cut your legs of pork like hams; beat them well with a wooden mallet,
till they are tender, but great care must be taken not to crack or break
the skin, or the hams will be spoiled. To three hams take half a peck of
salt, four ounces of saltpetre, and five pounds of coarse brown sugar;
break all the lumps, and mix them well together. Rub your hams well with
this mixture, and cover them with the rest. Let them lie three days;
then hang them up one night, and put as much water to the salt and sugar
as you think will cover them; the pickle must be strong enough to bear
an egg: boil and strain it, and, when it is cold, pack your hams close,
and cover them with the pickle at least an inch and half above their
tops. Let them lie for a fortnight; then hang them up one night; the
next day rub them well with bran, and hang them in the chimney of a
fire-place in which turf, wood, or sawdust is burned. If they are small
they will be dry enough in a fortnight; if large, in two or three days
more. Then hang them up against a wall near a fire, and not in a damp
place. Tongues may be cured in the same manner, and ribs of beef may be
put in at the same time with the hams. You must let the beef lie in the
pickle three weeks, and take it out when you want to boil it without
drying it.


_English Hams, to make like Westphalia._ No. 2.

Cut off with the legs of young well grown porkers part of the flesh of
the hind loin; lay them on either side in cloths, and press out the
remaining blood and moisture, laying planks on them with heavy weights,
which bring them into form; then salt them well with common salt and
sugar finely beaten, and lay them in troughs one upon another, pressed
closely down and covered with hyssop. Let them remain thus for a
fortnight; then pass through the common salt, and with saltpetre rub
them well over, which may be continued three or four days, till they
soak. Take them out, and hang them in a close barn or smoke-loft; make a
moderate fire under them, if possible of juniper-wood, and let them hang
to sweat and dry well. Afterwards hang them up in a dry and airy place
to the wind for three or four days, which will remove the ill scent left
by the smoke; and wrap them up in sweet hay. To dress them, put them
into a kettle of water when it boils; keep them well covered till they
are done, and very few can distinguish them from the true Westphalia.


_English Hams, to make like Westphalia._ No. 3.

Take a ham of fifteen or eighteen pounds weight, two ounces of
saltpetre, one pound of coarse sugar, one ounce of petre-salt, one ounce
of bay salt, and one ounce of sal prunella, mixed with common salt
enough to cover the ham completely. Turn your ham every other day, and
let it remain in salt for three weeks. Take it out, rub a little bran
over it, and dry it in a wood fire chimney, where a constant fire is
kept: it will be fit for eating in a month. The quantity of the above
ingredients must be varied according to the size of your ham. Before you
dress it soak it over-night in water.

Hams from bacon pigs are better than pork. An onion shred small gives it
a good flavour.


_Green Hams._

Salt a leg of pork as for boiling, with a little saltpetre to make it
red. Let it lie three weeks in salt, and then hang for a month or six
weeks; but if longer it is of no consequence. When boiled, stuff with
young strawberry leaves and parsley, which must be particularly well
washed or they will be gritty.


_Ham, to prepare for dressing without soaking._

Put the ham into a coarse sack well tied up, or sew it up in a cloth.
Bury it three feet under ground in good mould; there let it remain for
three or four days at least. This is an admirable way. The ham eats much
mellower and finer than when soaked.


_Ham, to dress._

Boil the ham for two hours; take it out and trim it neatly all round;
prepare in a stewpan some thin slices of veal, so as to cover the
bottom; add to it two bunches of carrots sliced, six large onions, two
cloves, two bunches of parsley, a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, a pint
of beef jelly, a bottle of white wine, and three pints of boiling water.
Place the ham in the stewpan, and let it boil an hour and three
quarters; then serve it immediately without sauce, preserving the sauce
for other use.


_Ham, to roast._

Tie or sew up the ham in a coarse cloth, put it into a sack, and bury it
three or four feet under ground, for three or four days before you dress
it. Wash it in warm water, pare it, and scrape the rind. Spit and lay it
down to roast. Into a broad stewpan put a pint of white wine, a quart of
good broth, half a pint of the best vinegar, two large onions sliced, a
blade of mace, six cloves, some pepper, four bay-leaves, some sweet
basil, and a sprig of thyme. Let all these have a boil; and set the
liquor under the ham, and baste very frequently with it. When the ham is
roasted, take up the pan; skim all the fat off; pour the liquor through
a fine sieve; then take off the rind of the ham, and beat up the liquor
with a bit of butter; put this sauce under, and serve it.


_Ham, entrée of._

Cut a dozen slices of ham; take off the fat entirely; fry them gently in
a little butter. Have a good brown rich sauce of gravy; and serve up
hot, with pieces of fried bread, cut of a semicircular shape, of the
same size as the pieces of ham, and laid between them.


_Ham toasts._

Cut slices of dressed ham, and thin slices of bread, or French roll, of
the same shape; fry it in clarified butter; make the ham hot in cullis,
or good gravy, thickened with a little floured butter. Dish the slices
of ham on the toast; squeeze the juice of a Seville orange into the
sauce; add a little pepper and salt; and pour it over them.


_Ham and Chicken, to pot. Mrs. Vanbrugh's receipt._

Put a layer of ham, then another of the white part of chicken, just as
you would any other potted meat, into a pot. When it is cut out, it will
shew a very pretty stripe. This is a delicate way of eating ham and
chicken.


_Another way._

Take as much lean of a boiled ham as you please, and half the quantity
of fat; cut it as thin as possible; beat it very fine in a mortar, with
a little good oiled butter, beaten mace, pepper, and salt; put part of
it into a china pot. Then beat the white part of a fowl with a very
little seasoning to qualify the ham. Put a layer of chicken, then one of
ham, then another of chicken at the top; press it hard down, and, when
it is cold, pour clarified butter over it. When you send it to table in
the pot, cut out a thin slice in the form of half a diamond, and lay it
round the edge of the pot.


_Herb sandwiches._

Take twelve anchovies, washed and cleaned well, and chopped very fine;
mix them with half a pound of butter; this must be run through a sieve,
with a wooden spoon. With this, butter bread, and make a salad of
tarragon and some chives, mustard and cress, chopped very small, and put
them upon the bread and butter. Add chicken in slices, if you please, or
hard-boiled eggs.


_Hog's Puddings, Black._ No. 1.

Steep oatmeal in pork or mutton broth, of milk; put to it two handfuls
of grated bread, a good quantity of shred herbs, and some pennyroyal:
season with salt, pepper, and ginger, and other spices if you please;
and to about three quarts of oatmeal put two pounds of beef suet shred
small, and as much hog suet as you may think convenient. Add blood
enough to make it black, and half a dozen eggs.


_Hog's Puddings, Black._ No. 2.

To three or four quarts of blood, strained through a sieve while warm,
take the crumbs of twelve-pennyworth of bread, four pounds of beef suet
not shred too fine, chopped parsley, leeks, and beet; add a little
powdered marjoram and mint, half an ounce of black pepper, and salt to
your taste. When you fill your skins, mix these ingredients to a proper
thickness in the blood; boil them twenty minutes, pricking them as they
rise with a needle to prevent their bursting.


_Hog's Puddings, Black._ No. 3.

Steep a pint of cracked oatmeal in a quart of milk till tender; add a
pound of grated bread, pennyroyal, leeks, a little onion cut small,
mace, pepper, and salt, to your judgment. Melt some of the leaf of the
fat, and cut some of the fat small, according to the quantity made at
once; and add blood to make the ingredients of a proper consistence.


_Hog's Puddings, White._ No. 1.

Take the pith of an ox, and lay it in water for two days, changing the
water night and morning. Then dry the pith well in a cloth, and, having
scraped off all the skin, beat it well; add a little rose-water till it
is very fine and without lumps. Boil a quart or three pints of cream,
according to the quantity of pith, with such spices as suit your taste:
beat a quarter of a pound of almonds and put to the cream. When it is
cold, rub it through a hair sieve; then put the pith to it, with the
yolks of eight or nine eggs, some sack, and the marrow of four bones
shred small; some sweetmeats if you like, and sugar to your taste: if
marrow cannot be procured suet will do. The best spices to put into the
cream are nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon; but very little of the last.


_Hog's Puddings, White._ No. 2.

Take a quart of cream and fourteen eggs, leaving out half the whites;
beat them but a little, and when the cream boils up put in the eggs;
keep them stirring on a gentle fire till the whole is a thick curd. When
it is almost cold, put in a pound of grated bread, two pounds of suet
shred small, having a little salt mixed with it, half a pound of almonds
well beaten in orange-flower water, two nutmegs grated, some citron cut
small, and sugar to your taste.


_Hog's Puddings, White._ No. 3.

Take two pounds of grated bread; one pint and a half of cream; two
pounds of beef suet and marrow; half a pound of blanched almonds, beat
fine with a gill of brandy; a little rose-water; mace, cloves, and
nutmeg, pounded, a quarter of an ounce; half a pound of currants, well
picked and dried; ten eggs, leaving out half the whites; mix all these
together, and boil them half an hour.


_Kabob, an India ragout._

This dish may be made of any meat, but mutton is the best. Take a slice
from a tender piece, not sinewy, a slice of ginger, and a slice of
onion, put them on a silver skewer alternately, and lay them in a
stewpan, in a little plain gravy. This is the kabob. Take rice and split
peas, twice as much rice as peas; boil them thoroughly together,
coloured with a little turmeric, and serve them up separately or
together. The ginger must be steeped over-night, that you may be able to
cut it.


_Another way._

To make the kabob which is usually served up with pilaw, take a lean
piece of mutton, and leave not a grain of fat or skin upon it; pound it
in a mortar as for forcemeat; add half a clove of garlic and a spoonful
or more of curry-powder, according to the size of the piece of meat, and
the yolk of an egg. Mix all well together; make it into small cakes;
fry it of a light brown, and put it round the pilaw.


_Leg of Lamb, to boil._

Divide the leg from the loin of a hind quarter of lamb; slit the skin
off the leg, and cut out the flesh of one side of it, and chop this
flesh very small; add an equal quantity of shred beef suet and some
sweet-herbs shred small; season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; break
into it two eggs. Mix all well together, put it into the leg, sew it up,
and boil it. Chop the loin into steaks, and fry them, and, when the leg
is boiled enough, lay the steaks round it. Take some white wine,
anchovies, nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of butter; thicken with the
yolks of two eggs; pour it upon the lamb, and so serve it up. Boil your
lamb in a cloth.


_Leg of Lamb, with forcemeat._

Slit a leg of lamb on the wrong side, and take out as much meat as
possible, without cutting or cracking the outward skin. Pound this meat
well with an equal weight of fresh suet: add to this the pulp of a dozen
large oysters, and two anchovies boned and clean washed. Season the
whole with salt, black-pepper, mace, a little thyme, parsley, and
shalot, finely shred together; beat them all thoroughly with the yolks
of three eggs, and, having filled the skin tight with this stuffing, sew
it up very close. Tie it up to the spit and roast it. Serve it with any
good sauce.


_Shoulder of Lamb, grilled._

Half roast, then score, and season it with pepper, salt, and cayenne.
Broil it; reserve the gravy carefully; pass it through a sieve to take
off all fat. Mix with it mushroom and walnut ketchup, onion, the size of
a nut, well bruised, a little chopped parsley, and some of the good
jelly reserved for sauces. Put a good quantity of this sauce; make it
boil, and pour it boiling hot on the lamb when sent to table.


_Lamb, to ragout._

Roast a quarter of lamb, and when almost done dredge it well with grated
bread, which must be put into the dish you serve it up in; take veal
cullis, salt, pepper, anchovy, and lemon juice; warm it, lay the lamb in
it, and serve it up.


_Lamb, to fricassee._

Cut the hind quarter of lamb into thin slices, and season them with
spice, sweet-herbs, and a shalot; fry and toss them up in some strong
broth, with balls and palates, and a little brown gravy to thicken it.


_Miscellaneous directions respecting Meat._

A leg of veal, the fillet without bone, the knuckle for steaks, and a
pie; bone of fillet and knuckle for soup.--Shoulder of veal, knuckle cut
off for soup.--Breast of veal, thin end stews, or re-heats as a
stew.--Half a calf's head boils, then hashes, with gravy from the
bones.--For mock turtle soup, neats' feet instead of calf's head, that
is, two calves' feet and two neats' feet.--Giblets of all poultry make
gravy.--Ox-cheek, for soup and kitchen.--Rump of beef cut in two, thin
part roasted, thick boiled: or steaks and one joint, the bone for
soup.--The trimmings of many joints will make gravy.--To boil the meat
white, well flour the joint and the cloth it is boiled in, not letting
any thing be boiled with it, and frequently skimming the grease.--Lamb
chops fried dry and thin make a neat dish, with French beans in cream
round them. A piece of veal larded in white celery sauce, to answer the
chops.--Dressed meat, chopped fine, with a little forcemeat, and made
into balls about the size of an egg, browned and fried dry, and sent up
without any sauce.--Sweetbreads larded in white celery sauce.--To remove
taint in meat, put the joint into a pot with water, and, when it begins
to boil, throw in a few red clear cinders, let them boil together for
two or three minutes, then take out the meat, and wipe it dry.--To keep
hams, when they are cured for hanging up, tie them in brown paper bags
tight round the hocks to exclude the flies, which omission occasions
maggots.--Ginger, where spice is required, is very good in most things.


_Meat, general rule for roasting and boiling._

The general rule for roasting and boiling meat is as follows: fifteen
minutes to a pound in roasting, twenty minutes to a pound in boiling.

On no account whatever let the least drop of water be poured on any
roast meat; it soddens it, and is a bad contrivance to make gravy, which
is, after all, no gravy, and totally spoils the meat.


_Meat, half-roasted or under-done._

Cut small pieces, of the size of a half-crown, of half-roasted mutton,
and put them into a saucepan with half a pint of red wine, the same
quantity of gravy, one anchovy, a little shalot, whole pepper, and salt;
let them stew a little; then put in the meat with a few capers, and,
when thoroughly hot, thicken with butter rolled in flour.


_Mustard, to make._

Mix three table-spoonfuls of mustard, one of salt, and cold spring water
sufficient to reduce it to a proper thickness.


_Chine of Mutton, to roast._

Let the chine hang downward, and raise the skin from the bone. Take
slices of lean gammon of bacon, and season it with chives, parsley, and
white pepper; spread them over the chine, and lay the bacon upon them.
Turn the skin over them, and tie it up; cover with paper, and roast.
When nearly done, dredge with crumbs of bread, and serve up, garnishing
with mutton cutlets.


_Mutton chops, to stew._

Put them in a stewpan, with an onion, and enough cold water to cover
them; when come to a boil, skim and set them over a very slow fire till
tender; perhaps about three quarters of an hour.

Turnips may be boiled with them.


_Mutton cutlets._

Cut a neck of mutton into cutlets; beat it till very tender; wash it
with thick melted butter, and strew over the side which is buttered some
sweet-herbs, chopped small, with grated bread, a little salt, and
nutmeg. Lay it on a gridiron over a charcoal fire, and, turning it, do
the same to that side as the other. Make sauce of gravy, anchovies,
shalots, thick butter, a little nutmeg, and lemon.


_Mutton cutlets, with onion sauce._

Cut the cutlets very small; trim all round, taking off all the fat; cut
off the long part of the bone; put them into a stewpan, with all the
trimmings that have been cut off, together with one onion cut in slices;
add some parsley, a carrot or two, a pinch of salt, and six
table-spoonfuls of mutton or veal jelly, and let them stew till the
cutlets are of a brown colour all round, but do not let them burn. Take
out the cutlets, drain them in a sieve, and let them cool; then strain
the sauce till it becomes of a fine glaze, and re-warm them. Have ready
some good onion sauce; put it in the middle of the dish; place the
cutlets--eight, if they are small--round it, and serve the glaze with
them; take care it does not touch the onion sauce, but pour it round the
outside part.


_Mutton hams, to make._

Cut a hind quarter of mutton like a ham. Take one ounce of saltpetre,
one pound of coarse sugar, and one pound of common salt; mix them
together, and rub the ham well with them. Lay it in a hollow tray with
the skin downward; baste it every day for a fortnight; then roll it in
sawdust, and hang it in wood smoke for a fortnight. Boil and hang it in
a dry place; cut it out in rashers. It does not eat well boiled, but is
delicious broiled.


_Haricot Mutton._

Take a neck of mutton, and cut it in the same manner as for mutton
chops. When done, lay them in your stewpan, with a blade of mace, some
whole peppercorns, a bunch of sweet-herbs, two onions, one carrot, one
turnip, all cut in slices, and lay them over your mutton. Set your
stewpan over a slow fire, and let the chops stew till they are brown;
turn them, that the other side may be the same. Have ready some good
gravy, and pour on them, and let them stew till they are very tender.
Your ragout must be turnips and carrots cut into dice, and small onions,
all boiled very tender, and well stirred up in the liquor in which your
mutton was stewed.


_Another way._

Fry mutton chops in butter till they are brown, but not done through.
Lay them flat in a stewpan, and just cover them with gravy. Put in small
onions, whole carrots, and turnips, scooped or cut into shapes; let them
stew very gently for two hours or more. Season the chops before you fry
them with pepper and salt.


_Leg of Mutton._

To give a leg of mutton the taste of mountain meat, hang it up as long
as it will keep fresh; rub it every day with ginger and coarse brown
sugar, leaving it on the meat.


_Leg of Mutton in the French fashion._

A leg of mutton thus dressed is a very excellent dish. Pare off all the
skin as neatly as possible; lard the leg with the best lard, and stick a
few cloves here and there, with half a clove of garlic, laid in the
shank. When half roasted, cut off three or four thin pieces, so as not
to disfigure it, about the shank bone; mince these very fine with sage,
thyme, mint, and any other sweet garden herbs; add a little beaten
ginger, very little, three or four grains; as much cayenne pepper, two
spoonfuls of lemon juice, two ladlefuls of claret wine, a few capers,
the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs: stew these in some meat jelly, and,
when thoroughly stewed, pour over your roast, and serve it up. Do not
spare your meat jelly; let the sauce be in generous quantity.


_Leg of Mutton or Beef, to hash._

Cut small flat pieces of the meat, taking care to pare the skin and
sinews, but leaving as much fat as you can find in the inside of the
leg; season with a little salt and cayenne pepper and a little soup
jelly; put in two whole onions, two bunches of parsley, the same of
thyme, and a table-spoonful of mushroom-powder. Take two or three little
balls of flour and butter, of the size of a nut, to thicken the sauce;
beat it well together; let this simmer a little while; take off the
scum; put in the meat, and let it boil. Serve up hot, with fried bread
round it.


_Another way._

Take the mutton and cut it into slices, taking off the skin and fat;
beat it well, and rub the dish with garlic; put in the mutton with
water, and season with salt, an onion cut in half, and a bundle of
savoury herbs; cover it, and set it over a stove and stew it. When half
stewed, add a little white wine (say two glasses) three blades of mace,
and an anchovy; stew it till enough done; then take out the onion and
herbs, and put the hash into the dish, rubbing a piece of butter in
flour to thicken it, and serve it up.


_Loin of Mutton, to stew._

Cut your mutton in steaks, and put it into as much water as will cover
it. When it is skimmed, add four onions sliced and four large turnips.


_Neck of Mutton, to roast._

Draw the neck with parsley, and then roast it; and, when almost enough,
dredge it with white pepper, salt, and crumbs; serve it with the juice
of orange and gravy.


_Neck of Mutton, to boil._

Lard a neck of mutton with lemon-peel, and then boil it in salt and
water, with sweet-herbs. While boiling, stew a pint of oysters in their
own liquor, half a pint of white wine, and the like quantity of broth;
put in two or three whole onions and some anchovies, grated nutmeg, and
a little thyme. Thicken the broth with the yolks of four eggs, and dish
it up with sippets. Lay the oysters under the meat, and garnish with
barberries and lemon.


_Neck of Mutton, to fry._

Take the best end of a neck of mutton, cut it into steaks, beat them
with a rolling-pin, strew some salt on them, and lay them in a
frying-pan: hold the pan over a slow fire that may not burn them: turn
them as they heat, and there will be gravy enough to fry them in, till
they are half done. Then put to them some good gravy; let them fry
together, till they are done; add a good bit of butter, shake it up, and
serve it hot with pickles.


_Saddle of Mutton and Kidneys._

Raise the skin of the fore-chine of mutton, and draw it with lemon and
thyme; and with sausage-meat farce part of it. Take twelve kidneys,
farce, skewer, and afterwards broil them; and lay round horseradish
between, with the gravy under.


_Shoulder of Mutton, to roast in blood._

Cut the shoulder as you would venison; take off the skin, and let it lie
in blood all night. Take as much powder of sweet-herbs as will lie on a
sixpence, a little grated bread, pepper, nutmeg, ginger, and lemon-peel,
the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, about twenty oysters, and some salt;
temper these all together with the blood; stuff the meat thickly with
it, and lay some of it about the mutton; then wrap the caul of the sheep
about the shoulder; roast it, and baste it with blood till it is nearly
done. Take off the caul, dredge, baste it with butter, and serve it with
venison sauce. If you do not cut it venison fashion, yet take off the
skin, because it will eat tough; let the caul be spread while it is
warm, and, when you are to dress it, wrap it up in a cloth dipped in hot
water. For sauce, take some of the bones of the breast; chop and put to
them a whole onion, a little lemon-peel, anchovies, and a little spice.
Stew these; add some red wine, oysters, and mushrooms.


_Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton, with Oysters._

Make six holes in either a shoulder or leg of mutton with a knife: roll
in eggs with your oysters, with crumbs and nutmeg, and stuff three or
four in every hole. If you roast, put a caul over it; if for boiling, a
napkin. Make some good oyster sauce, which lay under, and serve up hot.


_Roasted Mutton, with stewed Cucumbers._

Bone a neck and loin of mutton, leaving on only the top bones, about an
inch long; draw the one with parsley, and lard the other with bacon very
closely; and, after skewering, roast them. Fry and stew your cucumbers;
lay them under the mutton, and season them with salt, pepper, vinegar,
and minced shalot, and put the sauce under the mutton, garnishing with
pickled cucumbers and horseradish.


_Mutton to eat like Venison._

Boil and skin a loin of mutton; take the bones, two onions, two
anchovies, a bunch of sweet-herbs, some pepper, mace, carrot, and crust
of bread; stew these all together for gravy; strain it off, and put the
mutton into a stewpan with the fat side downward; add half a pint of
port wine. Stew it till thoroughly done.


_Mutton in epigram._

Roast a shoulder of mutton till it is three parts done, and let it cool;
raise the skin quite up to the knuckle, and cut off all to the knuckle.
Sauce the blade-bone; broil it, and hash the rest, putting in some
capers, with good gravy, pickled cucumbers, and shalots. Stir them well
up, and lay the blade-bone on the skin.


_Mushrooms, to stew brown._

Take some pepper and salt, with a little cayenne and a little cream;
thicken with butter and flour. To do them white, cut out all the black
inside.


_Newmarket John._

Cut the lean part of a leg of mutton in little thin collops; beat them;
butter a stewpan, and lay the collops all over. Have ready pepper, salt,
shalot or garlic, and strew upon them. Set them over a very slow fire.
As the gravy draws, turn over the collops, and dredge in a very little
flour; have ready some good hot gravy. Shake it up all together, and
serve with pickles.


_Ox-cheek, to stew._

Choose one that is fat and young, which may be known by the teeth; pick
out the eye-balls; cut away the snout and all superfluous bits. Wash and
clean it perfectly; well dry it in a cloth, and, with the back of a
cleaver, break all the bones in the inside of the cheek; then with a
rollingpin beat the flesh of the outside. If it is intended for the next
day's dinner, proceed in this manner:--quarter and lard it with marrow;
then pour on it garlic or elder vinegar so gently that it may sink into
the flesh; strew salt over it, and let it remain so till morning. Then
put it into a stewpan, big enough, if you do both cheeks, to admit of
their lying flat close to one another; but first rub the pan well with
garlic, and with a spoon spread a pound of butter and upwards at the
bottom and sides of the pan. Strew cloves and beaten mace on the cheeks,
also thyme and sweet marjoram, finely chopped; then put in as much white
wine as will cover them an inch or more above the meat, but wash not
off the other things by pouring it on. Rub the lid of the pan with
garlic, and cover it so close that no steam can escape. Make a brisk
fire under it, and, when the cover is so hot that you cannot bear your
hand on it, then a slack fire will stew it, but keep it so that the
cover be of the same heat as long as it is stewing. It must not be
uncovered the whole time it is doing: about three hours will be
sufficient. When you take it up, be careful not to break it; take out
the loose bones; pour the liquor on the cheek; clear from the fat and
the dross, and put lemon-juice to it. Serve it hot.


_Another way._

Soak it in water, and make it very clean; put it in a gallon of water,
with some potherbs, salt, and whole pepper. When stewed, so that the
bones will slip out easily, take it up and strain off the soup; put a
bit of butter in the frying-pan with some flour, and fry the meat brown,
taking care not to burn it. Put some of the soup to the flour and
butter, with ketchup, mushrooms, anchovy, and walnut liquor. Lay the
cheek in a deep dish, and pour the sauce over it.


_Ox-tail ragout._

Some good gravy must first be made, and the tail chopped through every
joint, and stewed a long time in it till quite tender, with an onion
stuck with cloves, a table-spoonful of port or Madeira wine, a
tea-spoonful of soy, and a little cayenne. Thicken the gravy with a
little flour.


_Another._

Take two or three ox-tails; put them in a saucepan, with turnips,
carrots, onions, and some black peppercorns; stew them for four hours.
Take them out; cut them in pieces at every joint; put them into a
stewpan with some good gravy, and scraped turnip and carrot; or cut them
into the shape of a ninepin; pepper and salt to your taste; add the
juice of half a lemon; and send it to table very hot.


_Peas, to stew._

Take a quart of fine peas, and two small or one large cabbage lettuce;
boil the lettuce tender; take it out of the water, shake it well, and
put it into the stewpan, with about two ounces of butter, three or four
little onions cut small, and the peas. Set them on a very slow fire, and
let them stew about two hours; season them to your taste with pepper and
a tea-spoonful of sugar; and, instead of salt, stew in some bits of
ham, which you may take out or leave in when you serve it. There should
not be a drop of water, except what inevitably comes from the lettuce.


_Another way._

To your peas, add cabbage lettuces cut small, a small faggot of mint,
and one onion; pass them over the fire with a small bit of butter, and,
when they are tender and the liquor from them reduced, take out the
onion and mint, and add a little white sauce. Take care it be not too
thin; season with a little pepper and salt.


_Green Peas, to keep till Christmas._

Gather your peas, when neither very young nor old, on a fine dry day.
Shell, and let two persons holding a cloth, one at each end, shake them
backward and forward for a few minutes. Put them into clean quart
bottles; fill the bottles, and cork tight. Melt some rosin in a pipkin,
dip the necks of the bottles into it, and set them in a cool dry place.


_Another way._

Shell the peas, and dry them in a gentle heat, not much greater than
that of a hot summer's day. Put them when quite dry into linen bags, and
hang them up in a dry place. Before they are boiled, at Christmas or
later, steep them in half milk, half water, for twelve or fourteen
hours; then boil them as if fresh gathered. Beans and French beans may
be preserved in the same manner.


_Red Pickle, for any meat._

A quarter of a pound of saltpetre, a large common basinful of coarse
sugar, and coarse salt. A leg of pork to lie in it a fortnight.


_Beef Steak Pie._

Rump steaks are preferable to beef; season them with the usual
seasoning, puff-paste top and bottom, and good gravy to fill the dish.


_Calf's Head Pie._

Parboil the head; cut it into thin slices; season with pepper and salt;
lay them into a crust with some good gravy, forcemeat balls, and yolks
of eggs boiled hard. Bake it about an hour and a half; cut off the lid;
thicken some good gravy with a little flour; add some oysters; serve it
with or without a lid.


_Mutton or Grass Lamb Pie._

Take a loin of mutton or lamb, and clear it from fat and skin; cut it
into steaks; season them well with pepper and salt; almost fill the dish
with water; lay puff paste at top and bottom.


_Veal Pie (common)._

Make exactly as you would a beef-steak pie.


_Veal Pie (rich)._

Take a neck, a fillet, or a breast of veal, cut from it your steaks,
seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a few cloves, truffles, and
morels; then slice two sweetbreads; season them in the same manner, and
put a layer of paste round the dish; then lay the meat, yolks of eggs
boiled hard, and oysters at the top: fill it with water. When taken out
of the oven, pour in at the top through a funnel some good boiled gravy,
thickened with cream and flour boiled up.


_Veal and Ham Pie._

Take two pounds of veal cutlets, or the best end of the neck, cut them
in pieces about half the size of your hand, seasoned with pepper and a
very little salt, and some dressed ham in slices. Lay them alternately
in the dish with forcemeat or sausage meat, the yolks of three eggs
boiled hard, and a gill of water.


_Veal Olive Pie._

Make your olives as directed in the receipt for making olives; put them
into a crust; fill the pie with water: when baked, pour in some good
gravy, boiled and thickened with a little good cream and flour boiled
together. These ingredients make an excellent pie.


_Beef Olive Pie._

Make your olives as you would common beef olives; put them into puff
paste, top and bottom; fill the pie with water, when baked, pour in some
good rich gravy.


_Pig, to barbicue._

The best pig for this purpose is of the thick neck breed, about six
weeks old. Season the barbicue very high with cayenne, black pepper, and
sage, finely sifted; which must be rubbed well into the inside of the
pig. It must then be sewed up and roasted, or, if an oven can be
depended upon, it will be equally good baked. The sauce must be a very
high beef gravy, with an equal quantity of Madeira wine in it. Send the
pig to table whole. Be careful not to put any salt into the pig, as it
will change its colour.


_Pig, to collar._

Have your pig cut down the back, and bone and wash it clean from the
blood; dry it well, and season it with spice, salt, parsley, and thyme,
and roll it hard in a collar; tie it close in a dry cloth and boil it
with the bones, in three pints of water, a quart of vinegar, a handful
of salt, a faggot of sweet-herbs, and whole spice. When tender, let it
cool and take it off; take it out of the cloth, and keep it in the
pickle.


_Pig, to collar in colours._

Boil and wash your pig well, and lay it on a dresser: chop parsley,
thyme, and sage, and strew them over the inside of the pig. Beat some
mace and cloves, mix with them some pepper and salt, and strew that
over. Boil some eggs hard, chop the yolks, and put them in layers across
your pig; boil some beet-root, and cut that into slices, and lay them
across; then roll it up in a cloth and boil it. Before it is cold, press
it with a weight, and it will be fit for use.


_Pig, to pickle or souse._

Take a fair fat pig, cut off his head, and cut him through the middle.
Take out the brains, lay them in warm water, and leave them all night.
Roll the pig up like brawn, boil till tender, and then throw it into an
earthen pan with salt and water. This will whiten and season the flesh;
for no salt must be put into the boiling for fear of turning it black.
Then take a quart of this broth and a quart of white wine, boil them
together, and put in three or four bay-leaves: when cold, season your
pig, and put it into this sauce. It will keep three months.


_Pig, to roast._

Chop the liver small by itself: mince blanched bacon, capers, truffles,
anchovy, mushrooms, sweet-herbs and garlic. Season and blanch the whole.
Fill your pig with it; tie it up; sprinkle some good olive oil over it;
roast and serve it up hot.


_Another way._

Put a piece of bread, parsley, and sage, cut small, into the belly with
a little salt; sew up the belly; spit the pig, and roast it; cut off the
ears and the under-jaws, which you will lay round; making a sauce with
the brains, thick butter and gravy, which lay underneath.


_Pig, to dress lamb fashion._

After skinning the pig, but leaving the skin quite whole, with the head
on, chine it down, as you would do mutton, larding it with thyme and
lemon-peel; and roast it in quarters like lamb. Fill the other part with
a plum-pudding; sew the belly up, and bake it.


_Pigs' Feet and Ears, fricassee of._

Clean the feet and ears, and boil them very tender. Cut them in small
shreds, the length of a finger and about a quarter of an inch in
breadth; fry them in butter till they are brown but not hard; put them
into a stewpan with a little brown gravy and a good piece of butter, two
spoonfuls of vinegar, and a good deal of mustard--enough to flavour it
strong. Salt to your taste; thicken with very little flour. Put in half
an onion; then take the feet, which should likewise be boiled as tender
as for eating; slit them quite through the middle; take out the large
bones; dip them in eggs, and strew them over with bread crumbs, seasoned
with pepper and salt; boil or fry them, and put them on the ragout, into
which squeeze some lemon-juice.


_Pigs' Feet and Ears, ragout of._

Split the feet, and take them out of souse; dip them in eggs, then in
bread-crumbs and chopped parsley; fry them in lard. Drain them; cut the
ears in long narrow slips; flour them; put them into some good gravy;
add ketchup, morels, and pickled mushrooms; stew them into the dish, and
lay on the feet.


_Pig's Head, to roll._

Take the belly-piece and head of pork, rub it well with saltpetre and a
very little salt; let it lie three or four days; wash it clean; then
boil the head tender, and take off all the meat with the ears, which cut
in pieces. Have ready four neats' feet, also well boiled; take out the
bones, cut the meat in thin slices, mix it with the head, and lay it
with the belly-piece: roll it up tight, and bind it up, and set it on
one end, with a trencher upon it; set it within the tin, and place a
heavy weight upon that, and let it stand all night. In the morning take
it out, and bind it with a fillet; put it in some salt and water, which
must be changed every four or five days. When sliced, it looks like
brawn. It is also good dipped in butter and fried, and eaten with melted
butter, mustard, and vinegar: for that purpose the slices should be only
about three inches square.


_Pilaw, an Indian dish._

Take six or eight ribs of a neck of mutton; separate and take off all
the skin and fat, and put them into a stewpan with twelve cloves, a
small piece of ginger, twelve grains of black pepper, and a little
cinnamon and mace, with one clove of garlic. Add as much water as will
serve to stew these ingredients thoroughly and make the meat tender.
Then take out the mutton, and fry it in nice butter of a light brown,
with some small onions chopped fine and fried very dry; put them to the
mutton-gravy and spice in which it was stewed, adding a table-spoonful
of curry-powder and half an ounce of butter. After mixing all the above
ingredients well together, put them to the rice, which should be
previously half boiled, and let the whole stew together, until the rice
is done enough and the gravy completely absorbed. When the pilaw is
dished for table, it should be thinly covered with plain boiled rice to
make it look white, and served up very hot.


_Pork, to collar._

Bone and season a breast of pork with savoury spice, parsley, sage, and
thyme; roll it in a hard collar of cloth; tie it close, and boil it,
and, when cold, keep it in souse.


_Pork, to pickle._

Having boned your pork, cut it into such pieces as will lie most
conveniently to be powdered. The tub used for this purpose must be
sufficiently large and sound, so as to hold the brine; and the narrower
and deeper it is the better it will keep the meat. Well rub the meat
with saltpetre; then take one part of bay and two parts of common salt,
and rub every piece well, covering it with salt, as you would a flitch
of bacon. Strew salt in the bottom of the tub; lay the pieces in it as
closely as possible, strewing salt round the sides of the tub, and if
the salt should even melt at the top strew no more. Meat thus cured will
keep a long time.


_Another way._

Cut your pork into small pieces, of the size you would boil at one time;
rub all the pieces very well with salt, and lay them on a dresser upon
boards made to slope that the brine may run off. After remaining three
or four days, wipe them with a dry cloth; have ready a quantity of salt
mixed with a small portion of saltpetre: rub each piece well with this
mixture, after which cover them all over with salt. Put them into an
earthen jar, or large pan, placing the pieces as close together as
possible, closing the top of the jar or pan, so as to prevent all
external air from getting in; put the shoulder pieces in a pan by
themselves. Pork prepared in this manner will keep good a year.


_Chine of Pork, to stuff and roast._

Make your stuffing of parsley, sage, thyme, eggs, crumbs of bread, and
season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and shalot; stuff the chine thick,
and roast it gently. When about a quarter roasted, cut the skin in
slips, making your sauce with lemon-peel, apples, sugar, butter, and
mustard, just as you would for a roast leg.


_Another way._

Take a chine of pork that has hung four or five days; make holes in the
lean, and stuff it with a little of the fat leaf, chopped very small,
some parsley, thyme, a little sage, and shalot, cut very fine, and
seasoned with pepper and salt. It should be stuffed pretty thick. Have
some good gravy in the dish. For sauce, use apple sauce.


_Pork Cutlets._

Cut off the skin of a loin or neck of pork and make cutlets; season them
with parsley, sage, and thyme, mixed together with crumbs of bread,
pepper, and salt; broil them, and make sauce with mustard, butter,
shalot, and gravy, and serve up hot.


_Gammon, to roast._

Let the gammon soak for twenty-four hours in warm water. Boil it tender,
but not too much. When hot, score it with your knife; put some pepper on
it, and then put it into a dish to crisp in a hot oven; but be mindful
to pull the skin off.


_Leg of Pork, to broil._

After skinning part of the fillet, cut it into slices, and hack it with
the back of your knife; season with pepper, salt, thyme, and sage,
minced small. Broil the slices on the gridiron, and serve with sauce
made with drawn butter, sugar, and mustard.


_Spring of Pork, to roast._

Cut off the spring of a knuckle of pork, and leave as much skin on the
spring as you can, parting it from the neck, and taking out the bones.
Rub it well with salt, and strew it all over with thyme shred small,
parsley, sage, a nutmeg, cloves, and mace, beaten small and well mixed
together. Rub all well in, and roll the whole up tight, with the flesh
inward. Sew it fast, spit it lengthwise, and roast it.


_Potatoes, to boil._ No. 1.

The following is the celebrated Lancashire receipt for cooking
potatoes:--Cleanse them well, put them in cold water, and boil them with
their skins on exceedingly slow. When the water bubbles, throw in a
little cold water. When they are done, drain the water completely away
through a colander; return them into a pot or saucepan without water;
cover them up, and set them before the fire for a quarter of an hour
longer. Do not pare the potatoes before they are boiled, which is a very
unwholesome and wasteful practice.


_Potatoes, to boil._ No. 2.

Scrape off the rind; put them into an iron pot; simmer them till they
begin to crack, and allow a fork to pierce easily; then pour off the
water, and put aside the lid of the pot, and sprinkle over some salt.
Place your pot at the edge of the fire, and there let it remain an hour
or more, and during this time all the moisture of the potatoes will
gradually exhale in steam, and you will find them white or flaky as
snow. Take them out with a spoon or ladle.


_Potatoes, to boil._ No. 3.

Boil them as usual; half an hour before sending to table, throw away the
water from them, and set the pot again on the fire; sufficient moisture
will come from the potatoes to prevent the pot from burning; let them
stand on the half stove, and not be peeled until sent to table.


_Potatoes, to bake._

Wash nicely, make into balls, and bake in the Dutch oven a light brown.
This forms a neat side or corner dish.


_Potato balls._

Pound some boiled potatoes in a mortar, with the yolks of two eggs, a
little pepper, and salt; make them in balls about the size of an egg; do
them over with yolk of egg and crumbs of bread; then fry them of a light
brown for table; five balls for a corner dish.

_Croquets of Potatoes._

Boil some potatoes in water, strain them, and take sufficient milk to
make them into a mash, rather thick; before you mix the potatoes put the
peel of half a lemon, finely grated, one lump of sugar, and a pinch of
salt; strain the milk after heating it, and add the potatoes; mash them
well together; let the mash cool; roll it into balls of the shape and
size of an egg; let there be ten or twelve of them; brush them over with
the yolk of egg, and roll them in crumbs of bread and a pinch of salt.
Do this twice over; then fry them of a fine brown colour, and serve them
with fried parsley round.


_Potatoes, to fry._

After your potatoes are nicely boiled and skinned, grate them, and to
every large table-spoonful of potatoes add one egg well beat, and to
each egg a small spoonful of cream, with some salt. Drop as many
spoonfuls as are proper in a pan in which is clarified butter.


_Potatoes, to mash._

After the potatoes are boiled and peeled, mash them in a mortar, or on a
clean board, with a broad knife, and put them into a stewpan. To two
pounds of potatoes put in half a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of
butter, and a little salt; set them over the fire, and keep them stirred
till the butter is melted; but take care they do not burn to the bottom.
Dish them up in what form you please.


_Potatoes, French way of cooking._

Boil the potatoes in a weak white gravy till nearly done; stir in some
cream and vermicelli, with three or four blades of mace, and let it boil
till the potatoes are sufficiently done, without being broken.


_Potatoes, à-la-Maitre d'hotel._

Cut boiled potatoes into slices, not too thin; simmer them in a little
plain gravy, a bit of butter rubbed in a little flour, chopped parsley,
pepper, and salt, and serve hot.


_Rice, to boil._

To boil rice well, though a simple thing, is rarely well done. Have two
quarts of water boiling, while you wash six ounces of rice, picked
clean. Change the water three or four times. When the rice is clean,
drain and put it into the boiling water. Boil twenty minutes; add three
quarters of a table-spoonful of salt. Drain off the water well--this is
the most essential point--set it before the fire, spread thin to dry.
When dry, serve it up. If the rice is not dry, so that each grain
separates easily from the others, it is not properly boiled.


_Another way._

Put one pound of rice into three quarts of boiling water; let it remain
twenty minutes. Skim the water, and add one ounce of hog's lard and a
little salt and pepper. Let it simmer gently over the fire closely
covered, for an hour and a quarter, when it will be fit for use. This
will produce eight pounds of savoury rice.


_Rissoles._ No. 1.

Take a roasted fowl, turkey, or pullet; pull it into shreds; there must
be neither bone nor skin. Cut some veal and ham into large dice; put it
into a stewpan, with a little thyme, carrots, onions, cloves, and two
or three mushrooms. Make these ingredients simmer over a slow fire for
two hours, taking care they do not burn; put in a handful of flour, and
stir well, with a pint of cream and as much good broth; let the whole
then stew for a quarter of an hour; continue to stir with a wooden spoon
to prevent its burning. When it is done enough, strain it through a
woollen strainer; then put in the whole meat of the poultry you have
cut, with which you must make little balls of the size of pigeons' eggs.
Dip them twice in very fine crumbs of bread; wrap them in paste, rolled
very thin; then fry them in lard, which should be very hot.


_Rissoles._ No. 2.

Take the fleshy parts and breasts of two fowls, which cut into small
dice, all of an equal size; then throw them into some white sauce, and
reduce it till it becomes very thick and stiff. When this is cold, cut
it into several pieces, and roll them to the size and shape of a cork;
then roll them in crumbs of bread very fine; dip them into some white
and yolks of eggs put up together with a little salt, and roll them
again in bread. If they are not stiff enough to keep their shape, this
must be repeated; then fry them of a light brown colour, drain them,
wipe off the grease, and serve them with fried parsley between them.


_Rissoles._ No. 3.

Take of the puré made as directed for pheasant, veal, or game, (see
Pheasant under the head Game) a sufficient quantity for eight rissoles,
then a little of the jelly of veal, say about half a pint; put in it a
pinch of salt and of cayenne pepper, two table-spoonfuls of cream, the
yolk of one egg, and a piece of butter of the size of a walnut; mix this
sauce well together over the fire, strain it, and then add the puré. Let
it cool, and prepare a little puff-paste sufficient to wrap the rissoles
once over with it, taking care to roll the paste out thin. Fry them, and
send them up with fried parsley, without sauce. The rissoles must be
made stiff enough not to break in the frying.


_Rice._

One pound of veal or fowl, chopped fine; have ready some good bechamel
sauce mixed with parsley and lemon-juice; mix it of a good thickness.
When cold, make it up into balls, or what shape you please; dip them in
yolks of eggs and bread crumbs, and fry them a few minutes before they
go to table. They should be of a light brown, and sent up with fried
parsley.


_A Robinson, to make._

Take about eight or ten pounds of the middle of a brisket of beef; let
it hang a day; then salt it for three days hung up; afterwards put it in
strong red pickle, in which let it remain three weeks. Take it out, put
it into a pot with plenty of water, pepper, a little allspice, and
onion; let it simmer for seven or eight hours, but never let it boil.
When quite tender, take out all the bones, spread it out on a table to
cool, well beat it out with a rollingpin, and sprinkle with cayenne,
nutmeg, and very little cloves, pounded together. Put it in a coarse
cloth after it is rolled; twist it at each end to get out the fat, and
bind it well round with broad tape; in that state let it remain three
days.


_Salad, to dress._

Two or three eggs, two or three anchovies, pounded, a little tarragon
chopped very fine, a little thick cream, mustard, salt, and cayenne
pepper, mixed well together. After these are all well mixed, add oil, a
little tarragon, elder, and garlic vinegar, so as to have the flavour of
each, and then a little of the French vinegar, if there is not enough of
the others to give the requisite taste.


_Bologna Sausages._

Have the fillets of young, tender porkers, and out of the weight of
twenty-five pounds three parts are to be lean and one fat; season them
well in the small shredding with salt and pepper, a little grated
nutmeg, and a pint of white wine, mixed with a pint of hog's blood;
stirring and beating it well together, with a little of the sweet-herbs
finely chopped; with a funnel open the mouths of the guts, and thrust
the meat gently into it with a clean napkin, as by forcing it with your
hands you may break the gut. Divide them into what lengths you please;
tie them with fine thread, and let them dry in the air for two or three
days, if the weather be clear and a brisk wind, hanging them in rows at
a little distance from each other in the smoke-loft. When well dried,
rub off the dust they contract with a clean cloth; pour over them sweet
olive-oil, and cover them with a dry earthen vessel.


_English Sausages._

Chop and bruise small the lean of a fillet of young pork; to every pound
put a quarter of a pound of fat, well skinned, and season it with a
little nutmeg, salt, and pepper, adding a little grated bread; mix all
these well together, and put it into guts, seasoned with salt and
water.


_Another way._

Take six pounds of very fine well fed pork, quite free from gristle and
fat; cut it very small, and beat it fine in a mortar; shred six pounds
of suet, free from skin, as fine as possible. Take a good deal of sage,
the leaves picked off and washed clean, and shred fine as possible;
spread the meat on a clean table; then shake the sage, about three large
spoonfuls, all over; shred the yellow part of the rind of a lemon very
fine, and throw that over, with as much sweet-herbs, when shred fine, as
will fill a large spoon; grate two nutmegs over it, with two
tea-spoonfuls of bruised pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Then
throw over it the suet, and mix all well together, and put it down close
in a pot. When you use it, roll it up with as much beaten egg as will
make the sausages roll smooth; let what you fry them in be hot before
you put them into the pan; roll them about, and when they are thoroughly
hot, and of a fine light brown colour, they are done. By warming a
little of the meat in a spoon when you are making it, you will then
taste if it is seasoned enough.


_Oxford Sausages._

Take the best part of a leg of veal and of a leg of pork, of each three
pounds; skin it well, and cut it into small dice. Take three pounds of
the best beef suet (the proportion of which you may increase or diminish
according to your taste,) skin it well; add a little sage, and chop it
all together as fine as forcemeat. When chopped, put in six or seven
eggs and a quarter of a pound of cold water, and season to your liking
with pepper and salt. Work it up as if you were kneading dough for
bread; roll it out in the form of sausages, and let the pan you fry them
in be hot, with a bit of butter in it.


_Sausages for Scotch collops._

Take beef suet and some veal, with a little winter savory, sage, thyme,
and some grated nutmeg, beaten cloves, mace, and a little salt and
pepper. Let these be well beaten together; then add two eggs beat, and
heat all together. Roll them up in grated bread, fry, and send them up.


_Veal Sausages._

Take half a pound of the lean of a leg of veal; cut it in small pieces,
and beat it very fine in a stone mortar, picking out all the little
strings. Shred one pound and half of beef-suet very small; season it
with pepper, salt, cloves, and mace, but twice as much mace as cloves,
some sage, thyme, and sweet marjoram, according to your palate. Mix all
these well with the yolks of twelve eggs; roll them to your fancy, and
fry them in lard.


_Sausages without skins._

Take a pound and quarter of the lean of a leg of veal and a pound and
quarter of the lean of a hind loin of pork; pick the meat from the skins
before you weigh it; then take two pounds and half of fresh beef-suet
picked clean from the skins, and an ounce and half of red sage leaves,
picked from the stalks; wash and mince them as fine as possible; put
them to the meat and suet, and mince as fine as you can. Add to it two
ounces of white salt and half an ounce of pepper. Pare all the crust
from a stale penny French roll, and soak the crumb in water till it is
wet through; put it into a clean napkin, and squeeze out all the water.
Put the bread to the meat, with four new-laid eggs beaten; then with
your hands work all these things together, and put them into a clean
earthen pan, pressed down close. They will keep good for a week. When
you use this meat, divide a pound into eighteen parts; flour your hands
a little, and roll it up into pretty thick sausages, and fry them in
sweet butter; a little frying will do.


_Spinach, the best mode of dressing._

Boil the spinach, squeeze the water from it completely, chop it a
little; then put it and a piece of butter in a stewpan with salt and a
very little nutmeg; turn it over a brisk fire to dry the remaining
water. Then add a little flour; mix it well, wet it with a little good
broth, and let it simmer for some time, turning it now and then to
prevent burning.

To dress it _maigre_, put cream instead of broth, and an onion with a
clove stuck in it, which you take out when you serve the spinach.
Garnish with fried bread. Observe that if you leave water in it, the
spinach cannot ever be good.


_Another way._

Clean it well, and throw it into fresh water; then squeeze and drain it
quite dry. Chop it extremely small, and put it into a pan with cream,
fresh butter, salt, and a very small quantity of pepper and nutmeg: add
an onion with two cloves stuck in it, and serve it up very hot, with
fried bread sippets of triangular shape round the dish.


_Spinach, to stew._

Pick the spinach very carefully; put it into a pan of water; boil it in
a large vessel with a good deal of salt to preserve the green colour,
and press it down frequently that it may be done equally. When boiled
enough to squeeze easily, drain it from the water, and throw it into
cold water. When quite cold, make it into balls, and squeeze it well.
Then spread it on a table and chop it very fine; put a good piece of
butter in a stewpan, and lay the spinach over the butter. Let it dry
over a slow fire, and add a little flour; moisten with half a pint of
beef jelly and a very little warm water: add a little cayenne pepper.
This spinach should be very like thick melted butter, and as fine and
smooth as possible.


_Another way._

Take some fine spinach, pick and wash it extremely clean. When well
boiled, put it into cold water, and squeeze it in a cloth very dry; chop
it very small; put it in a stewpan with a piece of butter and half a
pint of good cream; stir it well over the fire, that it may not oil; and
put in a little more cream just as you are going to dish it.


_Sweetbreads, ragout of._

Wash your sweetbreads; put them into boiling water, and, after blanching
them, throw them into cold water; dry them with a linen cloth; and put
them in a saucepan over the fire with salt, pepper, melted bacon, and a
faggot of sweet-herbs. Shake them together, and put some good gravy to
moisten them; simmer over the fire, and thicken to your liking.


_Another._

Take sweetbreads and lamb's fry, and parboil them, cutting them into
slices, and cocks'-combs sliced and blanched, and season them with
pepper and salt, and other spices; fry them in a little lard; drain and
toss them in good gravy, with two shalots, a bunch of sweet-herbs,
mushrooms, and truffles. Thicken it with a glass of claret; garnish with
red beet root.


_Savoury Toasts, to relish Wine._

Cut six or seven pieces of bread about the size of two fingers, and fry
them in butter till they are of a good colour; cut as many slices of ham
of the same size, and put them into a stewpan over a slow fire, for an
hour; when they are done take them out, and stir into the stewpan a
little flour; when of a good colour moisten it with some broth, without
salt; then skim off the fat, and strain the sauce through a sieve. Dish
the ham upon the fried bread, and pour the sauce over.


_Another._

Rasp some crumb of bread; put it over the fire in butter; put over it a
minced veal kidney, with its fat, parsley, scallions, a shalot, cayenne
pepper and salt, mixed with the whites and yolks of four eggs beat: put
this forcemeat on fried toasts of bread, covering the whole with grated
bread, and passing the salamander over it. Serve it with a clear beef
gravy sauce under it.


_Tomata to eat with roast meat._

Cover the bottom of a flat saucepan with the tomatas, that they may lie
one upon another; add two or three spoonfuls of water, a little salt and
pepper, to your taste; cover the pan, and stew them; in six or seven
minutes turn them, and let them stew till they are soft. Send them up
with their liquor.


_Tongues, to cure._ No. 1.

Take two fine bullocks' tongues; wash them well in spring water; dry
them thoroughly with a cloth, and salt them with common salt, a quarter
of a pound of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of treacle, and a quarter
of a pound of gunpowder. Let them lie in this pickle for a month; turn
and rub them every day; then take them out and dry them with a cloth;
rub a little gunpowder over them, and hang them up for a month, when
they will be fit to eat, previously soaking a few hours as customary.


_Tongues, to cure._ No. 2.

One pound of bay salt, half a pound of saltpetre, two ounces of sal
prunella, two pounds of coarse sugar; make your brine strong enough with
common salt to float an egg. The quantity of water is seven quarts, boil
all together, and scum it well for half an hour. When cold, put the
tongues in, and wash them in warm water before dressing. For table be
sure never to let them boil, but simmer slowly for four or five hours.

_Tongues, to cure._ No. 3.

Take two fine neats' tongues; cut off the roots, and cut a nick in the
under side; wash them clean, and dry with a cloth. Rub them with common
salt, and lay them on a board all night. Next day take two ounces of bay
salt, one of sal prunella, and a handful of juniper-berries, all bruised
fine; mix them with a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar and one pound
of common salt. Rub the tongues well with this mixture; lay them in a
long pan, and turn and rub them daily for a fortnight. Take them out of
the pickle, and either dry or dress them.


_Tongues, to cure._ No. 4.

Mix some well bruised bay salt, and a little saltpetre, with common
salt, and with a linen cloth rub the tongues and salt them, most
particularly the roots; and as the brine consumes put some more, till
the tongues are hard and stiff. When they are salted, roll them up, and
dry them in bran.


_Tongues, to cure._ No. 5.

Have the roots well cleansed from the moisture, and with warm water wash
and open the porous parts, that the salt may penetrate, and dry them
well. Cover them for a week with a pickle made of common salt, and bay
salt well boiled in it; then rub them with saltpetre, and to make them
of a good red colour you must take them out, and rub and salt them well
so that the salt penetrates, pressing them down hard with a board that,
when they are put to dry, they may keep their due proportion. The usual
way of drying them is with burnt sawdust, which, with the salt, gives
the dusky colour that appears on the outside before they are boiled.


_Tongues, to cure._ No. 6.

Well rub into the tongue two ounces of saltpetre, a pound of common
salt, and a quarter of a pound of treacle; and baste every day for three
weeks.


_Tongue, to smoke._

Wipe the tongue dry, when taken out of the pickle; glaze it over with a
brush dipped in pyroligneous acid, and hang it up in the kitchen.


_Tongue, to bake._

Season your tongues with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; lard them with large
lardoons, and have them steeped all night in vinegar, claret, and
ginger. Season again with whole pepper, sliced nutmeg, whole cloves, and
salt. Bake them in an earthen pan; serve them up on sippets, and lay
your spice over them, with slices of lemon and some sausages.


_Tongue, to boil._

Put a good quantity of hay with your tongues, tying them up in a cloth,
or else in hay. Boil them till they are tender and of a good colour, and
they will eat short and mellow.


_Tongue, to pot._

Prick the tongues with a skewer, and salt them with bay-salt and
saltpetre, to make them red. Boil them till they will just peel; season
with mace and a little pepper, to your liking; bake them in a pot well
covered with butter, and they will keep as long as any potted meat.


_Tongue and Udder, to roast._

Have the tongue and udder boiled and blanched, the tongue being salted
with saltpetre; lard them with the whole length of large lardoons, and
then roast them on a spit, basting them with butter: when roasted, dress
them with grated bread and flour, and serve up with gravy, currant-jelly
by itself, and slices of lemon.


_Sheep's Tongue, or any other, with Oysters._

Boil six tongues in salt and water till they are sufficiently tender to
peel. Slice them thin, and with a quart of large oysters put them in a
dish, with some whole spice and a little claret, and let them stew
together. Then put in some butter, and three yolks of eggs well beaten.
Shake them all well together, and put some sippets and lay your tongues
upon them.


_Tripe, to dress._

Take of the finest tripe, and, when properly trimmed, cut it in pieces
about four inches square; put it in a stewpan, with as much white wine
as will almost cover it: slice in three or four race of ginger, quarter
in a nutmeg, put in a good deal of salt, a bundle of herbs, rosemary,
thyme, sweet marjoram, and onion. When this has stewed gently a good
while, take out a pint of the clearest liquor, free from fat or dross,
and dissolve in it some anchovies finely picked. Take up the tripe, a
bit at a time, with a fork, and lay it in a warmed dish; pour on it the
liquor in which the anchovies were dissolved. Sprinkle on it a little
lemon juice. Those who are fond of onions or garlic may make either the
prevailing ingredient.


_Tripe, to fricassee._

Cut into slices the fat part of double tripe; dip them into eggs or
batter, and fry them to lay round the dish. Cut the other part into long
slips, and into dice, and toss them up with onion, chopped parsley,
melted butter, yolks of eggs, and a little vinegar. Season with pepper
and salt, and serve up.


_Truffles and Morels, to stew._

Well wash the truffles, cut them into slices, of the size and about the
thickness of half-a-crown; put them into a stewpan, with a pinch of salt
and cayenne pepper, and a little butter, to prevent their being burnt.
Let them stew ten minutes; have ready a good brown sauce of half a pint
of beef and the same of veal jelly, thickened with a little butter and
flour; add to it any trimmings of the truffles or morels, and boil them
also in it; put in one pinch of cayenne pepper. Strain the truffles or
morels from the butter they were first stewed in; throw them into the
sauce; warm the whole again, and serve hot.


_Veal, to boil._

Veal should be boiled well; a knuckle of six pounds will take very
nearly two hours. The neck must be also well boiled in a good deal of
water; if boiled in a cloth, it will be whiter. Serve it with tongue,
bacon, or pickled pork, greens of any sort, brocoli, and carrots, or
onion sauce, white sauce, oyster sauce, parsley and butter, or white
celery sauce.


_Veal, to collar._

Bone and wash a breast of veal; steep it in three waters, and dry it
with a cloth; season it with savoury spice, some slices of bacon, and
shred sweet-herbs; roll them in a collar of cloth, and boil it in salt
and water, with whole spice; skim it clean and take it up, and when cold
put it in the pickle.


_Another way._

Take the meat of a breast of veal; make a stuffing of beef-suet, crumb
of bread, lemon peel, parsley, pepper, and salt, mixed up with two eggs;
lay it over the meat, and roll it up. Boil an hour and a half, and send
it to table with oyster sauce.


_Veal, to roast._

Veal will take a quarter of an hour to a pound: paper the fat of the
loin and fillet; stuff the fillet and shoulder with the following
ingredients: a quarter of a pound of suet, chopped fine, parsley, and
sweet-herbs chopped, grated bread, lemon-peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and
yolk of egg; butter may supply the want of suet. Roast the breast with
the caul on it till almost done; take it off, flour and baste it. Veal
requires to be more done than beef. For sauce use salad pickles,
brocoli, cucumbers, raw or stewed, French beans, peas, cauliflower,
celery, raw or stewed.


_Veal, roasted, ragout of._

Cut slices of veal about the size of two fingers and at least as long as
three; beat them with a cleaver till they are no thicker than a
crown-piece; put upon every slice some stuffing made with beef-suet,
ham, a little thyme, parsley, scallions, and a shalot. When the whole is
minced, add the yolks of two eggs, half a table-spoonful of brandy,
salt, and pepper; spread it on the veal and roll it. Cover each piece
with a thin slice of bacon, and tie it carefully. Then put them on a
small delicate spit covered with paper; and, when they are done, take
off the paper carefully, grate bread over them, and brown them at a
clear fire. Serve them with a gravy sauce.


_Veal, to stew._

Cut the veal into small pieces; season with an onion, some salt and
pepper, mace, lemon-peel, and two or three shalots; let them stew in
water, with a little butter, or port wine, if you like. When enough
done, put in some yolks of eggs beaten, and boil them quick. Dish and
serve them up.


_Veal, with Rice, to stew._

Boil half a pound of rice in three quarts of water in a small pan with
some good broth, about a pint, and slices of ham at the bottom, and two
good onions. When it is almost done, spread it, about twice the
thickness of a crown-piece, over a silver or delft dish in which it is
to be served [it must be a dish capable of bearing the fire]. Lay slices
of veal and ham alternately--the veal having already been dressed brown.
Cover the meat with rice in such a manner that it cannot be seen; put
your dish upon a hot stove; brown the rice with a salamander; drain off
the fat that may be in the dish, and serve it dry, or, if it is
preferred, with any of the good sauces, for which there are directions,
poured under it.


_Veal served in paper._

Cut some slices of veal from the fillet, about an inch thick, in a small
square, about the size of a small fricandeau; make a box of paper to fit
neatly; rub the outside with butter, and put in your meat, with sweet
oil or butter, parsley, scallions, shalots, and mushrooms, all stewed
very fine, salt, and whole pepper. Set it upon the gridiron, with a
sheet of oiled paper under it, and let it do by a very slow fire, lest
the paper burn. When the meat is done on one side turn it on the other.
Serve it in the box, having put over it very gently a dash of vinegar.


_Bombarded Veal._

Take a piece of a long square of bacon; cut it in thin slices; do the
same with veal, and lay the slices on your bacon. Having made a piece of
good forcemeat, spread it thin on your veal, having previously seasoned
the latter with pepper and salt. Roll these up one by one; spit them on
a lark spit, quite even; wash them over with eggs and crumbs of bread;
then roast them, and serve up with a good ragout.


_Veal Balls._

Take two pounds of veal; pick out the skin and bones; mix it well with
the crust of a French roll, soaked in hot milk, half a pound of veal
suet, two yolks of eggs, onion, and chopped parsley; season with pepper
and salt. Roll the balls in raspings; fry them of a gold colour: boil
the bones and the bits of skin to make the gravy for them.


_Breast of Veal._

To fricassee it like fowls, parboil it; turn it a few times over the
fire with a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley, scallions, some
mushrooms, truffles, and morels. Shake in a little flour; moisten with
some good stock broth; and when the whole is done and skimmed, thicken
it with the yolks of three eggs beat with some milk; and, before it is
served, add a very little lemon juice.


_Breast of Veal, with Cabbage and Bacon._

Cut the breast of veal in pieces, and parboil it; parboil also a cabbage
and a bit of streaked bacon, cut in slices, leaving the rind to it. Tie
each separately with packthread, and let them stew together with good
broth; no salt or pepper, on account of the bacon. When the whole is
done, take out the meat and cabbage, and put them into the terrine you
serve to table. Take the fat off the broth, put in a little cullis, and
reduce the sauce over the stove. When of a proper thickness pour it over
the meat, and serve up.


_Breast of Veal en fricandeau._

Lard your veal, and take a ragout of asparagus, (for which see Ragouts,)
and lay your veal, larded or glazed, upon the ragout. The same may be
done with a ragout of peas.


_Breast of Veal, glazed brown._

Take a breast of veal, cut in pieces, or whole if you prefer it. Stir a
bit of butter and a spoonful of flour over the fire, and, when it is of
a good colour, put in a pint of broth, and afterwards the veal. Stew it
over a slow fire, and season with pepper and salt, a bunch of parsley,
scallions, cloves, thyme, laurel, basil, and half a spoonful of vinegar.
When the meat is done and well glazed, skim the sauce well, and serve
it round it.


_Breast of Veal, to stew with Peas._

Cut the nicest part of the breast of veal, with the sweetbread; roast it
a little brown; take a little bit of the meat that is cut off the ends,
and fry it with butter, salt, pepper, and flour; take a little hot water
just to rinse out the gravy that adheres to the frying-pan, and put it
into a stewpan, with two quarts of hot water, a bundle of parsley,
thyme, and marjoram, a bit of onion or shalot, plenty of lemon-peel, and
a pint of old green peas, the more mealy the better. Let it stew two or
three hours, then rub it through a sieve with a spoon; it should be all
nice and thick; then put it again in the stewpan with the meat, having
ready some hot water to add to the gravy in case it should be wanted. A
thick breast will take two hours, and must be turned every now and then.
Boil about as many nice young peas as would make a dish, the same as for
eating; put them in about ten minutes before you take it up, skimming
all the fat nicely off; and season it at the same time with salt and
cayenne to your taste.


_Another way._

Cut your veal into pieces, about three inches long; fry it delicately;
mix a little flour with some beef broth, with an onion and two cloves;
stew this some time, strain it, add three pints or two quarts of peas,
or heads of asparagus, cut like peas. Put in the meat; let it stew
gently; add pepper and salt.


_Breast of Veal ragout._

Bone and cut out a large square piece of the breast of veal; cut the
rest into small pieces, and brown it in butter, stewing it in your
ragout for made dishes; thicken it with brown butter, and put the ragout
in the dish. Lay diced lemon, sweetbreads, sippets, and bacon, fried in
batter of eggs; then lay on the square piece. Garnish with sliced
oranges.


_Veal Collops, with Oysters._

Cut thin slices out of a leg of veal, as many as will make a dish,
according to the number of your company. Lard one quarter of them, and
fry them in butter; take them out of the pan and keep them warm. Clean
the pan, and put into it half a pint of oysters, with their liquor, and
some strong broth, one or two shalots, a glass of white wine, two or
three anchovies minced, and some grated nutmeg; let these have a boil
up, and thicken with five eggs and a piece of butter. Put in your
collops, and shake them together till the sauce is tolerably thick. Set
them on the stove again to stew a little; then serve up.


_Veal Collops, with white sauce._

Cut veal that has been already roasted into neat small pieces, round or
square; season them with a little pepper and salt; pass them quick of a
pale colour in a bit of butter of the size of a walnut; add the yolks of
five eggs, and half a pint of cream, with a very small onion or two,
previously boiled; toss them up quick, and serve hot.


_Veal Cutlets, to dress._

Cut the veal steaks thin; hack and season them with pepper, salt, and
sweet-herbs. Wash them over with melted butter, and wrap white paper
buttered over them. Roast or bake them; and, when done, take off the
paper, and serve them with good gravy and Seville orange-juice squeezed
on.


_Another way._

Take the best end of a neck of veal and cut your cutlets; four ribs will
make eight cutlets. Beat them out very thin, and trim them round. Take
chopped parsley, thyme, shalots, and mushrooms, pass them over the fire,
add a little juice of lemon, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg. Dip in the
cutlets, crumb them, and boil them over a gentle fire. Save what you
leave from dipping them in, put some brown sauce to it, and put it under
them when going to table, first taking care to remove the grease from
it. Lamb cutlets are done the same way.


_Veal Cutlets, larded._

Cut a neck of veal into bones; lard one side, and fry them off quick.
Thicken a piece of butter, of the size of a large nut, with a little
flour, and whole onion. Put in as much good gravy as will just cover
them, and a few mushrooms and forcemeat balls. Stove them tender; skim
off all grease; squeeze in half a lemon, and serve them up.


_Fillet of Veal, to farce or roast._

Mince some beef suet very small, with some sweet marjoram, winter
savory, and thyme; season with salt, cloves, and mace, well beaten; put
in grated bread; mix them all together with the yolk of an egg; make
small holes in the veal, and stuff it very thick with these. Put it on
the spit and roast it well. Let the sauce consist of butter, gravy, and
juice of lemon, very thick. Dish the veal, and pour the sauce over it,
with slices of lemon laid round the dish.


_Fillet of Veal, to boil._

Cut out the bone of a fillet of veal; put it into good milk and water
for a little while: make some forcemeat with boiled clary, raw carrots,
beef suet, grated bread, sweet-herbs, and a good quantity of shrimps,
nutmeg, and mace, the yolks of three eggs boiled hard, some pepper and
salt, and two raw eggs; roll it up in butter, and stuff the veal with
it. Boil the veal in a cloth for two hours, and scald four or five
cucumbers, in order to take out the pulp the more easily. This done,
fill them with forcemeat, and stew them in a little thin gravy. For
sauce take strong white gravy, thickened with butter, a very little
flour, nutmeg, mace, and lemon-peel, three anchovies dissolved in
lemon-juice, some good cream, the yolk of an egg beaten, and a glass of
white wine. Serve with the cucumbers.


_Half a Fillet of Veal, to stew._

Take a stewpan large enough for the piece of veal, put in some butter,
and fry it till it is firm, and of a fine brown colour all round; put in
two carrots, two large onions, whole, half a pound of lean bacon, a
bunch of thyme and of parsley, a pinch of cayenne pepper and of salt:
add a cupful of broth, and let the whole stew over a very slow fire for
one hour, or according to the size of your piece of veal, until
thoroughly done. Have ready a pint of jelly soup, in which stew a
table-spoonful of mustard and the same of truffles cut in small pieces;
add one ounce of butter and a dessert spoonful of flour to thicken;
unite it well together; put in a glass of white wine, and boil. When
ready to serve, pour it over the veal; let there be sauce sufficient to
fill the dish; the veal must be strained from the vegetables, and great
care taken that the sauce is well passed through the sieve, to keep it
clear from grease.


_Knuckle of Veal, white._

Boil a knuckle of veal in a little water kept close from the air, with
six onions and a little whole pepper, till tender. The sauce to be
poured over it, when dished in a little of its own liquor--two or three
anchovies, a little mace, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg,
thickened with a little flour.


_Knuckle of Veal ragout._

Cut the veal into slices half an inch thick; pepper, salt, and flour
them; fry them of a light brown; put the trimmings, with the bone
broken, an onion sliced, celery, a bunch of sweet-herbs; pour warm water
to cover them about an inch. Stew gently for two hours; strain it, and
thicken with flour and butter, a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of wine,
and the juice of half a lemon. Give it a boil, strain into a clean
saucepan, put in the meat, and make it hot.


_Leg of Veal and Bacon, to boil._

Lard the veal with bacon and lemon-peel; boil it with a piece of bacon,
cut in slices; put the veal into a dish, and lay the bacon round it.
Serve it up with green sauce made thus: beat two or more handfuls of
sorrel in a mortar, with two pippins quartered, and put vinegar and
sugar to it.


_Loin of Veal, to roast._

Roast, and baste with butter; set a dish under your veal, with vinegar,
a few sage leaves, and a little rosemary and thyme. Let the gravy drop
on these, and, when the veal is roasted, let the herbs and gravy boil
once or twice on the fire: serve it under the veal.


_Loin of Veal, to roast with herbs._

Lard the fillet of a loin of veal; put it into an earthen pan; steep it
three hours with parsley, scallions, a little fennel, mushrooms, a
laurel-leaf, thyme, basil, and two shalots, the whole shred very fine,
salt, whole pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a little sweet oil. When
it has taken the flavour of the herbs, put it upon the spit, with all
its seasoning, wrapt in two sheets of white paper well buttered; tie it
carefully so as to prevent the herbs falling out, and roast it at a very
slow fire. When it is done take off the paper, and with a knife pick off
all the bits of herbs that stick to the meat and paper, and put them
into a stewpan, with a little gravy, two spoonfuls of verjuice, salt,
whole pepper, and a bit of butter, about as big as a walnut, rolled in
flour. Before you thicken the sauce, melt a little butter; mix it with
the yolk of an egg, and rub the outside of the veal, which should then
be covered with grated bread, and browned with a salamander. Serve it up
with a good sauce under, but not poured over so as to disturb the meat.


_Loin of Veal, fricassee of._

Well roast a loin of veal, and let it stand till cold. Cut it into
slices; in a saucepan over the stove melt some butter, with a little
flour, shred parsley, and chives. Turn the stewpan a little for a minute
or so, and pepper and salt the veal. Put it again into the pan, and give
it three or four turns over the stove with a little broth, and boil it
a little: then put three or four yolks of eggs beaten up to a cream, and
some parsley shred, to thicken it, always keeping it stirred over the
fire till of sufficient thickness; then serve it up.


_Loin of Veal Bechamel._

When the veal is nicely roasted, cut out part of the fillet down the
back; cut it in thin slices, and put some white sauce to what you have
cut out. Season it with the juice of lemon and a little pepper and salt;
put it into the veal, and cover the top with crumbs of bread that has
been browned, or salamander it over with crumbs, or leave the skin of
the veal so that you can turn it over when the seasoning part is put in.


_Neck of Veal, stewed with Celery._

Take the best end of a neck, put it into a stewpan with beef broth,
salt, whole pepper, and two cloves, tied in a bit of muslin, an onion,
and a piece of lemon-peel. Add a little cream and flour mixed, some
celery ready boiled, and cut into lengths; and boil it up.


_Veal Olives._ No. 1.

are done the same way as the beef olives, only cut off a fillet of veal,
fried of a fine brown. The same sauce is used as for beef, and, if you
like, small bits of curled bacon may be laid in the dish. Garnish with
lemon and parsley.


_Veal Olives._ No. 2.

Wash eight or ten Scots collops over with egg batter; season and lay
over a little forcemeat; roll them up and roast them; make a good ragout
for them; garnish with sliced orange.


_Veal Olives._ No. 3.

Take a good fillet of veal, and cut large collops, not too thin, and
hack them well; wash them over with the yolk of an egg; then spread on a
good layer of forcemeat, made of veal pretty well seasoned. Roll them
up, and wash them with egg; lard them over with fat bacon, tie them
round, if you roast them; but, if to be baked, you need only wash the
bacon over with egg. Garnish with slices of lemon, and for sauce take
thick butter and good gravy, with a piece of lemon.


_Veal Olives._ No. 4.

Lay over your forcemeat; first lard your collops, and lay a row of large
oysters; and then roll them up, and roast or bake them. Make a ragout
of oysters, sweetbreads fried, a few morels and mushrooms, and lay in
the bottom of your dish, and garnish with fried oysters and grated
bread.


_Veal Rumps._

Take three veal rumps; parboil and put them into a little pot, with some
broth, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic, two shalots, a
laurel leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, salt, pepper, an onion, a carrot,
and a parsnip: let them boil till they are thoroughly done, and the
sauce is very nearly consumed. Take them out, let them cool, and strain
the sauce through a rather coarse sieve, that none of the fat may
remain. Put it into a stewpan, with the yolks of three eggs beat up, and
a little flour, and thicken it over the fire. Then dip your veal rumps
into it, and cover them with grated bread; put them upon a dish, and
brown them with a salamander. Serve them with sour sauce, for which see
the part that treats of Sauces.


_Shoulder of Veal, to stew._

Put it in an earthen pan, with a gill of water, two spoonfuls of
vinegar, salt, whole pepper, parsley and scallions, two cloves of
garlic, a bay leaf, two onions, two heads of celery, three cloves, and a
bit of butter. Cover the pan close, and close the edges with flour and
water. Stew it in an oven three hours; then skim and strain the sauce,
and serve it over the veal.


_Veal Steaks._

Cut a neck of veal into steaks, and beat them on both sides: beat up an
egg, and with a feather wet your steaks on both sides. Add some parsley,
thyme, and a little marjoram, cut small, and seasoned with pepper and
salt. Sprinkle crumbs of bread on both sides of the steaks, and put them
up quite tight and close into paper which has been rubbed with butter.
They may be either broiled or baked in a pan.


_Veal Sweetbreads, to fry._

Cut each of your sweetbreads in three or four pieces and blanch them:
put them for two hours in a marinade made with lemon-juice, salt,
pepper, cloves, a bay leaf, and an onion sliced. Take the sweetbreads
out of the marinade, and dry them with a cloth; dip them in beaten yolk
of eggs, with crumbs of bread; fry them in lard till they are brown;
drain them; fry some parsley, and put it in the middle of the dish, and
serve them.


_Veal Sweetbreads, to roast._

Lard your sweetbreads with small lardoons of bacon, and put them on a
skewer; fasten them to the spit and roast them brown. Put some good
gravy into a dish; lay in the sweetbreads, and serve them very hot. You
ought to set your sweetbreads and spit them; then egg and bread them, or
they will not be brown.


_Vegetables, to stew._

Cut some onions, celery, turnips, and carrots, into small squares, like
dice, but not too small; stew them with a bunch of thyme in a little
broth and butter; fry them till they are of a fine brown colour; turn
them with a fork, till quite soft; if they are not done enough, put a
little flour from the dredging-box to brown them; skim the sauce well,
and pass it through a sieve; add a little cayenne pepper and salt; put
the vegetables in, and serve them up.


_Haunch of Venison, to roast._ No. 1.

Butter and sprinkle your fat with salt; lay a sheet of paper over it;
roll a thin sheet of paste and again another sheet of paper over the
paste, and with a packthread tie and spit it. Baste the sheet of paper
with butter, and let the venison roast till done enough. Be careful how
you take off the papers and paste, basting it with some butter during
that time, and dredge up: then let it turn round some time to give the
fat a colour. The object of pasting is to save the fat. Have
currant-jelly with it, and serve it up.


_Haunch of Venison, to roast._ No. 2.

Let your haunch be well larded with thick bacon; seasoning it with fine
spices, parsley, sweet-herbs, cut small, pepper, and salt. Pickle it
with vinegar, onions, salt, pepper, parsley, sweet basil, thyme, and
bay-leaves: and, when pickled enough, spit it, and baste it with the
pickle. When roasted, dish it up with vinegar, pepper, and thick sauce.


_Haunch of Venison, to roast._ No. 3.

Have the haunch well and finely larded with bacon, and put paper round
it: roast and serve it up with sauce under it, made of good cullis or
broth, gravy of ham, capers, anchovies, salt, pepper, and vinegar.


_Venison, to boil._

Have your venison a little salted, and boil it in water. Meanwhile boil
six cauliflowers in milk and water; and put them into a large pipkin
with drawn butter; keep them warm, and put in six handfuls of washed
spinach, boiled in strong broth; pour off the broth, and put some drawn
butter to it; lay some sippets in the dish, and lay your spinach round
the sides; have the venison laid in the middle, with the cauliflower
over it; pour your butter also over, and garnish with barberries and
minced parsley.


_Haunch of Venison, to broil._

Take half a haunch, and cut it into slices of about half an inch thick;
broil and salt them over a brisk fire, and, when pretty well soaked,
bread and serve them up with gravy: do the same with the chine.


_Venison, to recover when tainted._

Boil bay salt, ale, and vinegar together, and make a strong brine; skim
it, and let it stand till cool, and steep the venison for a whole day.
Drain and press it dry: parboil, and season it with pepper and salt.


_Another way._

Tie your venison up in a clean cloth; put it in the earth for a whole
day, and the scent will be gone.


_Red Deer Venison, to pot._

Let the venison be well boned and cut into pieces about an inch thick,
and round, of the diameter of your pot. Season with pepper and salt,
something higher than you would pasty, and afterwards put it into your
pots, adding half a quarter of butter, and two sliced nutmegs, cloves
and mace about the same quantity of each, but rather less of the cloves.
Then put into your pots lean and fat, so that there may be fat and lean
mixed, until the pots are so nearly filled as to admit only a pint of
butter more to be put into each. Make a paste of rye-flour, and stop
your pots close on the top. Have your oven heated as you would for a
pasty; put your pots in, and let them remain as long as for pasty; draw
them out, and let them stand half an hour; afterwards unstop them, and
turn the pots upside down; you may remove the contents, if you like,
into smaller pots; in which case take off all the butter, letting the
gravy remain, and using the butter for the fresh pots; let them remain
all night; the next day fill them with fresh butter. To make a pie of
the same, proceed in the same way with the venison, only do not season
it so high; but put in a liberal allowance of butter.


_Venison, excellent substitute for._

Skin a loin of mutton; put to it a quarter of a pint of port wine, half
a pint of spring water, two spoonfuls of vinegar, an onion with three
cloves, a small bunch of thyme and parsley, a little pepper and salt, to
your taste. Stew them with the mutton very slowly for two hours and a
half; baste it with the liquor very often; skim off the fat, and send
the gravy in the dish with the mutton. Sauce--the same as for venison.


_Water Cresses, to stew._

When the cresses are nicely picked and well washed, put them into a
stewpan with a little butter under them. Let them stew on a clear fire
until almost done; then rub them through a sieve; put them again into a
pan, with a dust of flour, a little salt, and a spoonful of good cream:
give it a boil, and dish it up with sippets. The cream may be omitted,
and the cresses may be boiled in salt and water before they are rubbed
through the sieve, and afterwards stewed, but it takes the strength out,
therefore it is best not to boil them first.




POULTRY.


_Chicken, to make white._

Feed them in the coop on boiled rice; give them no water at all to
drink. Scalded oatmeal will do as well.


_Chicken, to fricassee._ No. 1.

Empty the chicken, and singe it till the flesh gets very firm. Carve it
as neatly as possible; divide the legs at the joints into four separate
pieces, the back into two, making in all ten pieces. Take out the lungs
and all that remains within; wash all the parts of the chicken very
thoroughly in lukewarm water, till all the blood is out. Put the pieces
in boiling water, sufficient to cover them, about four tea-cupfuls, and
let them remain there ten minutes; take them out, preserve the water,
and put them into cold water. When quite cool, put two ounces of fresh
butter into a stewpan with half a pint of mushrooms, fresh or pickled;
if pickled, they must be put into fresh cold water two or three hours
before; the water to be changed three times; put into the stewpan two
bunches of parsley and two large onions; add the chicken, and set the
stewpan over the fire. When the chickens have been fried lightly, taking
care they are not in the least browned, dust a little salt and flour
over them; then add some veal jelly to the water in which they were
blanched; let them boil about three quarters of an hour in that liquor,
skimming off all the butter, and scum very cleanly; then take out the
chicken, leaving the sauce or liquor, and lay it in another stewpan,
which place in a basin of hot water near the fire. Boil down the sauce
or liquor, adding some more veal jelly, till it becomes strong, and
there remains sufficient sauce for the dish; add to this the yolk of
four eggs and three table-spoonfuls of cream: boil it, taking great care
to keep it constantly stirring; and, when ready to serve, having placed
the chicken in a very hot dish, with the breast in the middle, and the
legs around, pour the sauce well over every part. The sauce should be
thicker than melted butter, and of a yellow colour.


_Chicken, to fricassee._ No. 2.

Cut the chicken up in joints; put them into cold water, and set them on
the fire till they boil; skim them well. Save the liquor. Skin, wash,
and trim the joints; put them into a pan, with the liquor, a small bunch
of parsley and thyme, a small onion, and as much flour and water as will
give it a proper thickness, and let them boil till tender. When going to
table, put in a yolk of egg mixed with a little good cream, a little
parsley chopped very fine, juice of lemon, and pepper and salt to your
taste.


_Chicken, to fricassee._ No. 3.

Take two chickens and more than half stew them; cut them into limbs;
take the skin clean off, and all the inside that is bloody. Put them
into a stewpan, with half a pint of cream, about two ounces of butter,
into which shake a little flour, some mace, and whole pepper, and a
little parsley boiled and chopped fine. Thicken it up with the yolks of
two eggs; add the juice of a lemon, and three spoonfuls of good white
gravy.


_Chicken, to fricassee._ No. 4.

Have a frying-pan, with sufficient liquor to cover your chicken cut into
pieces; half of the liquor to be white wine and water. Take one nutmeg
sliced, half a dozen cloves, three blades of mace, and some whole
pepper; boil all these together in a frying-pan; put half a pound of
fresh butter and skim it clean; then put in your chickens, and boil them
till tender; add a small quantity of parsley. Take four yolks and two
whites of eggs; beat them well with some thick butter, and put it to
your chicken in the pan; toss it over a slow fire till thick, and serve
it up with sippets.


_Chicken, white fricassee of._

Cut in pieces chickens or rabbits; wash and dry them in a cloth; flour
them well, and fry in clarified butter till they are a little brown,
but, if not enough done, put them in a stewpan, and just cover them with
strong veal or beef broth. Put in with them a bunch of thyme, an onion
stuck with cloves, a little pepper and salt, and a blade of mace. Cover
and stew till tender, and till the liquor is reduced about one half. Put
in a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolk of two eggs beat, and a
quarter of a pint of cream. Stir well; let it boil; if not thick enough,
shake in some flour; and then put in juice of lemon.


_Cream of Chicken, or Fowl._

For this purpose fowls are preferable, because the breasts are larger.
Take two chickens, cut off the breast, and roast them; the remainder put
in a stewpan with two pounds of the sinewy part of a knuckle of veal.
Boil the whole together to make a little clear good broth: when the
breasts are roasted, and your broth made, take all the white of the
breast, put it in a small stewpan, and add to it the broth clean and
clear. It will be better to cut the white of the chickens quite fine,
and, when you find that it is boiled soft, proceed in the same manner as
for cream of rice and pass it. Just in the same way, make it of the
thickness you judge proper, and warm in the same manner as the cream of
rice: put in a little salt if it is approved of.


_Chickens, to fry._

Scald and split them; put them in vinegar and water, as much as will
cover them, with a little pepper and salt, an onion, a slice or two of
lemon, and a sprig or two of thyme, and let them lie two hours in the
pickle. Dry them with a cloth; flour and fry them in clarified butter,
with soft bread and a little of the pickle.


_Chickens, to heat._

Take the legs, wings, brains, and rump, and put them into a little white
wine vinegar and claret, with some fresh butter, the water of an onion,
a little pepper and sliced nutmeg, and heat them between two dishes.


_Chickens, dressed with Peas._

Singe and truss your chickens; boil one half and roast the other. Put
them into a small saucepan, with a little water, a small piece of
butter, a little salt, and a bundle of thyme and parsley. Set them on
the fire, and put in a small lump of sugar. When they boil, set them
over a slow fire to stew. Lay your boiled chickens in a dish; put your
peas over them; then lay the roasted ones between, and send to table.


_Chicken and Ham, ragout of._

Clear a chicken which has been dressed of all the sauce that may be
about it. If it has been roasted, pare off the brown skin, take some
soup, veal jelly, and cream, and a table-spoonful of mushrooms; if
pickled, wash them in several waters to take out the vinegar: put them
in the jelly, and keep this sauce to heat up. Cut up the chicken, the
wings and breast in slices, the merrythought also, and divide the legs.
Heat the fowl up separately from the sauce in a little thin broth:
prepare six or eight slices of ham stewed apart in brown gravy; dip each
piece of the fowl in the white sauce, and lay them in the middle of the
dish with a piece of the ham alternately one beside another, taking care
that as little of the white sauce as possible goes on the ham, to
preserve its colour. Lay the legs one on each side of the meat in the
middle; and pour the sauce in the middle, taking care not to pour it
over the ham.


_Chicken, or Ham and Veal patés._

Cut up into small dice some of the white of the chicken, or the most
delicate part of veal already dressed; take sufficient white sauce, with
truffles, morels, and mushrooms, and heat it up to put in the patés.
When ready, pour it amply into them, and serve up hot.


_Another._

Take the white of a chicken or veal, cut it up in small dice; do the
same with some ham or tongue; warm it in a little broth, and take a good
white sauce, such as is used for pheasants, and heat it up thoroughly.


_Duck, to boil._

Pour over it boiling milk and water, and let it lie for an hour or two.
Then boil it gently for a full half hour in plenty of water. Serve with
onion sauce.


_Duck, to boil, à la Française._

To a pint of rich beef gravy put two dozen of roasted peeled chesnuts,
with a few leaves of thyme, two small onions if agreeable, a race of
ginger, and a little whole pepper. Lard a fine tame duck, and half roast
it; put it into the gravy; let it stew ten minutes, and add a pint of
port wine. When the duck is done, take it out; boil up your gravy to a
proper thickness, but skim it very clean from the fat; lay your duck in
the dish, and pour the sauce over it.


_Duck à la braise._

Lard the duck; lay a slice or two of beef at the bottom of the pan, and
on these the duck, a piece of bacon, and some more beef sliced, an
onion, a carrot, whole pepper, a slice of lemon, and a bunch of
sweet-herbs. Cover this close, and set it over the fire for a few
minutes, shaking in some flour: then pour in a quart of beef broth or
boiling water, and a little heated red wine. Stew it for half an hour;
strain the sauce, and skim it; put to it some more wine if necessary,
with cayenne, shalot, a little mint, juice of a lemon, and chopped
tarragon. If agreeable to your taste, add artichoke bottoms boiled and
quartered.


_Duck, to hash._

When cut in pieces, flour it; put it into a stewpan with some gravy, a
little red wine, shalot chopped, salt and pepper; boil these; put in the
duck; toss it up, take out the lemon, and serve with toasted sippets.


_Duck, to stew with Cucumbers._

Half roast the duck, and stew it as before. Slice some cucumbers and
onions; fry and drain them very dry; put them to the duck, and stew all
together.


_Duck, to stew with Peas._

Half roast the duck, put it into some good gravy with a little mint and
three or four sage-leaves chopped. Stew this half an hour; thicken the
gravy with a little flour; throw in half a pint of green peas boiled, or
some celery, in which case omit the mint.


_Fowls, to fatten in a fortnight._

Gather and dry, in proper season, nettle leaves and seed; beat them into
powder, and make it into paste with flour, adding a little sweet
olive-oil. Make this up into small crams: coop the birds up and feed
them with it, giving them water in which barley has been boiled, and
they will fatten in the above-mentioned time.


_Fowl, to make tender._

Pour down the throat of the fowl, about an hour before you kill it, a
spoonful of vinegar, and let it run about again. When killed, hang it up
in the feathers by the legs in a smoky chimney; then pluck and dress it.
This method makes fowls very tender.


_Fowl, to roast with Anchovies._

Put a bit of butter in your stewpan with a little flour; keep stirring
this over the fire, but not too hot, till it turns of a good gold
colour, and put a little of it into your gravy to thicken it.


_Fowl with Rice, called Pilaw._

Boil a pint of rice in as much water as will cover it. Put in with it
some whole black pepper, a little salt, and half a dozen cloves, tied up
in a bit of cloth. When the rice is tender take out the cloves and
pepper, and stir in a piece of butter. Boil a fowl and a piece of bacon;
lay them in a dish, and cover them with the rice. Lay round the dish and
upon the rice hard eggs cut in halves and quarters, and onions, first
boiled and then fried.


_Fowl, to hash._

Cut the fowl in pieces; put it in some gravy, with a little cream,
ketchup, or mushroom-powder, grated lemon-peel, a few oysters and their
liquor, and a piece of butter mixed with flour. Keep stirring it till
the butter is melted. Lay sippets in the dish.


_Fowl, to stew._

Take a fowl, two onions, two carrots, and two turnips; put one onion
into the fowl, and cut all the rest into four pieces each. Add two or
three bits of bacon or ham, a bay-leaf, and as much water as will
prevent their burning when put into an earthen vessel; cover them up
close, and stew them for three hours and a half on a slow fire. Serve up
hot or cold.


_Goose, to stuff._

Having well washed your goose, dry it, and rub the inside with pepper
and salt. Crumble some bread, but not too fine; take a piece of butter
and make it hot; cut a middle-sized onion and stew in the butter. Cut
the liver very small, and put that also in the butter for about a minute
just to warm, and pour it over the head. It must then be mixed up with
an egg and about two spoonfuls of cream, a little nutmeg, ginger, pepper
and salt, and a small quantity of summer savory.


_Another way._

Chop fine two ounces of onions, and an ounce of green sage leaves; add
four ounces of bread crumbs, the yolk and white of an egg, a little salt
and pepper, and sometimes minced apples.


_Goose's liver, to dress._

When it is drawn, leave the gall sticking to it; lay it in fresh water
for a day, and change the water several times. When you use it, wipe it
dry, cut off the gall, and fry it in butter, which must be made very hot
before the liver is put in: it must be whole and fried brown--no fork
stuck in it. Serve with a little ketchup sauce.


_Pigeons, to boil._

Chop sweet-herbs and bacon, with grated bread, butter, spice, and the
yolk of an egg; tie both ends of the pullets, and boil them. Garnish
with sliced lemon and barberries.


_Pigeons, to broil._

Cut their necks and wings close, leaving the skin of the neck to enable
you to tie close, and with some grated bread put an anchovy, the two
livers of pigeons, half a grated nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of butter,
a very little thyme, a little pepper and salt, and sweet marjoram shred.
Mix all together, and into each bird put a piece of the size of a
walnut, after sewing up the vents and necks, and, with a little nutmeg,
pepper, and salt, strewed over them, broil them on a slow charcoal fire,
basting and turning very often. Use rich gravy or melted butter for
sauce, and season to your taste.


_Pigeons, to jug._

Pick and draw the pigeons, and let a little water pass through them;
parboil and bruise the liver with a spoon; mix pepper, salt, grated
nutmeg, parsley shred fine, and lemon-peel, suet cut small, in quantity
equal to the liver, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard and also cut fine;
mix these with two raw eggs, and stuff the birds, tying up the necks and
vents. After dipping the pigeons into water, season them with salt and
pepper; then put them into a jug, with two or three pieces of celery,
stopping it very close, to prevent the steam escaping. Set them in a
kettle of cold water; lay a tile on the top, and boil three hours; take
them out, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour; shake it round
till thick, and pour it over the pigeons.


_Pigeons, to pot._

Truss and season them with savoury spice; put them into a a pot or pan,
covering them with butter, and bake them. Take out, drain, and, when
cold, cover them with clarified butter. Fish may be potted in the same
way, but always bone them when baked.


_Pigeons, to stew._ No. 1.

Truss your pigeons as for boiling. Take pepper, salt, cloves, mace, some
sweet-herbs, a little grated bread, and the liver of the birds chopped
very fine; roll these up in a bit of butter, put it in the stomach of
the pigeons, and tie up both ends. Make some butter hot in your stewpan,
fry the pigeons in it till they are brown all over, putting to them two
or three blades of mace, a few peppercorns, and one shalot. Take them
out of the liquor, dust a little flour into the stewpan, shaking it
about till it is brown. Have ready a quart of small gravy and a glass of
white wine; let it just boil up: strain out all the spice, and put the
gravy and pigeons into the stewpan. Let them simmer over the fire two
hours; put in some pickled mushrooms, a little lemon juice, a spoonful
of ketchup, a few truffles and morels. Dish and send to table with bits
of bacon grilled. Some persons add forcemeat balls, but they are very
rich without.


_Pigeons, to stew._ No. 2.

Shred the livers and gizzards, with as much suet as there is meat;
season with pepper, salt, parsley, and thyme, shred small; fill the
pigeons with this stuffing; lay them in the stewpan, breasts downward,
with as much strong broth as will cover them. Add pepper, salt, and
onion, and two thin rashers of bacon. Cover them close; let them stew
two hours or more, till the liquor is reduced to one half, and looks
like gravy, and the pigeons are tender; then put them in a dish with
sippets. If you have no strong broth, you may stew in water; but you
must not put so much water as broth, and they must stew more slowly.


_Pigeons, to stew._ No. 3.

Cut six pigeons with giblets into quarters, and put them into a stewpan,
with two blades of mace, salt, pepper, and just water sufficient to stew
them without burning. When tender, thicken the liquor with the yolk of
an egg and three spoonfuls of fresh cream, a little shred thyme,
parsley, and a bit of butter. Shake all together, and garnish with
lemon.


_Pigeons, biscuit of._

Wash, clean, and parboil, your pigeons, and stew them in strong broth.
Have a ragout made for them of strong gravy, with artichoke bottoms and
onions, seasoning them with the juice of lemons, and lemons diced,
truffles, mushrooms, morels, and bacon cut as for lard. Pour the broth
into a dish with dried sippets, and, after placing your pigeons, pour on
the ragout. Garnish with scalded parsley, lemons, and beet-root.


_Pigeons, en compote._ No. 1.

The pigeons must be young and white, and the inside entirely taken out.
Let none of the heart or liver remain, which is apt to render them
bitter. Make some forcemeat of veal, and fill the pigeons with it; then
put them in a braise, with some bacon, a slice of lemon, a little thyme,
and bay-leaf, and let them stew gently for an hour. The sauce is made of
cucumbers and mushrooms, and they must be sweated in a little butter
till tender; then strain it off the butter, and put in some strong gravy
and a little flour to thicken it. Lastly, add the yolks of two eggs and
a little good cream, which, when put to it, must be well stirred, and
not suffered to boil, as it would curdle and spoil the sauce.


_Pigeons, en compote._ No. 2.

Have the birds trussed with their legs in their bodies, but stuffed with
forcemeat; parboil and lard them with fat bacon; season with pepper,
spices, parsley, and minced chives; stew them very gently. While they
are stewing, make a ragout of fowls' livers, cocks'-combs, truffles,
morels, and mushrooms, and put a little bacon in the frying-pan to melt;
put them in, and shake the pan three or four times round; then add some
rich gravy, and let it simmer a little, and put in some veal cullis and
ham to thicken it. Drain the pigeons, and put them into this ragout; let
them just simmer; take them up, put them into your dish, and pour the
ragout over.


_Pigeons, en compote._ No. 3.

Lard, truss, and force them; season and stew them in strong broth. Have
a ragout garnished with sippets, sweetbreads, and sprigs of parsley;
then fry the pigeons in a batter of eggs and sliced bacon. You may
garnish most dishes in the same way.


_Pigeons, à la Crapaudine._

Cut the birds open down the back, and draw the legs through the skin
inside, as you would do a boiled fowl, then put into a roomy saucepan
some butter, a little parsley, thyme, shalots, and, if you can have
them, mushrooms, all chopped together very fine. Put the pigeons in
this, and let them sweat in the butter and herbs for about five minutes.
While they are warm and moist with the herbs and butter, cover them all
over with fine bread crumbs; sprinkle a little salt upon them, and boil
them on a slow fire. The sauce may be either of mushrooms or cucumbers,
made by sweating whichever you choose in butter till quite tender, then
adding a little gravy, cream, and flour.


_Pigeons in disguise._

Draw, truss, and season the pigeons with salt and pepper, and make a
nice puff; roll each pigeon in a piece of it; tie them in a cloth, but
be careful not to let the paste break. Boil them in plenty of water for
an hour and a half; and when you untie them take great care they do not
break; put them into a dish, and pour a little good gravy to them.


_Pigeons in fricandeau._

Draw and truss the pigeons with the legs in the bellies, larding them
with bacon, and slit them. Fry them of a fine brown in butter: put into
the stewpan a quart of good gravy, a little lemon-pickle, a tea-spoonful
of walnut ketchup, cayenne, a little salt, a few truffles, morels, and
some yolks of hard eggs. Pour your sauce with its ingredients over the
pigeons, when laid in the dish.


_Pigeons aux Poires._

Let the feet be cut off, and stuff them with forcemeat, in the shape of
a pear, rolling them in the yolk of an egg and crumbs of bread, putting
in at the lower end to make them look like pears. Rub your dish with a
piece of butter, and then lay them over it, but not to touch each other,
and bake them. When done, lay them in another dish, and pour some good
gravy into it, thickening with the yolk of an egg; but take care not to
pour it over the pigeons.


_Another way._

Cut off one leg; truss the pigeons to boil, and let the leg come out of
the vent; fill them with forcemeat: tie them with packthread, and stew
them in good broth. Roll the pigeons in yolks of eggs, well beaten with
crumbs of bread. Lard your stewpan, but not too hot, and fry your birds
to the colour of a popling pear; lay them in a dish, and send up gravy
and orange in a terrine with them.


_Pigeons, Pompeton of._

Butter your pan, lay in it some sliced bacon, and cover all the inside
of it with forcemeat. Brown the pigeons off in a pan, and put them in a
good ragout, stewing them up together, and put also a good ladleful of
ragout to the forcemeat: then lay your pigeons breast downward, and pour
over them the ragout that remains; cover them with forcemeat, and bake
them. Turn them out, and serve up.


_Pigeons au Soleil._

Make some forcemeat, with half a pound of veal, a quarter of a pound of
mutton, and two ounces of beef, and beat them in a mortar with salt,
pepper, and mace, till they become paste. Beat up the yolks of four
eggs, put them into a plate, and mix two ounces of flour and a quarter
of a pound of grated bread. Set on your stewpan with a little rich beef
gravy; tie up three or four cloves in a piece of muslin, and put into
it; then put your pigeons in, and stew them till nearly done; set them
before the fire to keep warm, and with some good beef dripping in your
pan, enough to cover the birds, set it on the fire; when boiling, take
one at a time, and roll it in the meat that was beaten, then in the yolk
of an egg, till they are quite wet; strew them with bread and flour in
boiling dripping, and let them remain till brown.


_Pigeons à la Tatare, with Cold Sauce._

Singe and truss the pigeons as for boiling, and beat them flat, but not
so as to break the skin; season them with salt, pepper, cloves, and
mace. Dip them in melted butter and grated bread; lay them on a
gridiron, and turn them often. Should the fire not be clear, lay them
upon a sheet of paper buttered, to keep them from being smoked. For
sauce, take a piece of onion or shalot, an anchovy, and two spoonfuls of
pickled cucumbers, capers, and mushrooms: mince these very small by
themselves; add a little pepper and salt, five spoonfuls of oil, one of
water, and the juice of a lemon, and mix them well together with
mustard. Pour the sauce cold into the dish, and lay the birds, when
broiled, upon it.


_Pigeons, Surtout of._

Take some large tame pigeons; make forcemeat thus: parboil and bruise
the livers fine; beat some boiled ham in a mortar; mix these with some
mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, a clove of garlic shred fine, two
or three young onions minced fine, a sweetbread of veal, parboiled and
minced very fine, pepper, and salt. Fill the pigeons with this stuffing;
tie them close, and cover each pigeon with the forcemeat: tie them up in
paper to keep it on, and while roasting have some essence of ham heated;
pour it into your dish, and lay your pigeons upon it.


_To preserve tainted Poultry._

Have a large cask that has been just emptied, with part of a stave or
two knocked out at the head, and into the others drive hooks to hang
your fowls, but not so as to touch one another, covering the open places
with the staves or boards already knocked out, but leaving the bung-hole
open as an air vent. Let them dry in a cool place, and in this way you
may keep fish or flesh.


_Pullets with Oysters._

Boil your pullets. Put a quart of oysters over the fire till they are
set; strain them through a sieve, saving the liquor, and put into it two
or three blades of mace, with a little thyme, an onion, parsley, and two
anchovies. Boil and strain all these off, together with half a pound of
butter; draw it up, and squeeze into it half a lemon. Then let the
oysters be washed, and set one by one in cold water; put them in the
liquor, having made it very hot, and pour it over the pullets. Garnish,
if you please, with bacon and sausages.


_Pullets to bone and farce._

Bone the pullets as whole as you possibly can, and fill the belly with
sweetbreads, mushrooms, chesnuts, and forcemeat balls; lard the breast
with gross lard, pass them off in a pan, and either roast or stew them,
making a sauce with mushrooms and oysters, and lay them under.


_Rabbits, to boil._

Truss and lard them with bacon, boiling them white. Take the liver,
shred with it fat bacon for sauce, and put to it very strong broth,
vinegar, white wine, salt, nutmeg, mace, minced parsley, barberries, and
drawn butter. Lay your rabbits in the dish, and let the sauce be poured
over them. Garnish the dish with barberries and lemon.


_Rabbits, to boil with Onions._

Truss the rabbits close; well wash; boil them white; boil the onions by
themselves, changing the water three times. Strain them well, and chop
and butter them, putting in a quarter of a pint of cream; then serve up
the rabbits covered with onions.


_Rabbits, brown fricassee of._

Fry your rabbits brown, and stew it in some gravy, with thyme, an onion,
and parsley, tied together. Season, and thicken it with brown
thickening, a few morels, mushrooms, lemon, and forcemeat balls.


_Rabbits, white fricassee of._ No. 1.

Cut the rabbits in slices; wash away the blood; fry them on a slow fire,
and put them into your pan with a little strong broth; seasoning, and
tossing them up with oysters and mushrooms. When almost done, put in a
pint of cream, thickened with a piece of butter and flour.


_Rabbits, white fricassee of._ No. 2.

Take the yolks of five eggs and a pint of cream; beat them together, and
put two ounces of butter into the cream, until the rabbits are tender.
Put in this liquor to the rabbits, and keep tossing them over the fire
till they become thickened, and then squeeze in a lemon; add truffles,
mushrooms, morels, artichoke bottoms, pallets, cocks-combs, forcemeat
balls, or any of these.


_Rabbits, white fricassee of._ No. 3.

Cut them in the same manner as for eating, and put them into a stewpan,
with a pint of veal gravy, a little beaten mace, a slice of lemon-peel,
and anchovy, and season with cayenne pepper and salt. Stew over a slow
fire, and, when done enough, thicken the gravy with butter and flour;
then strain and add to it two eggs, mixed with a glass of cream, and a
little nutmeg. Take care not to let it boil.


_Turkey, to boil._

Fill a large turkey with oysters; take a breast of veal, cut in olives;
bone it, and season it with pepper, salt, nutmegs, cloves, mace,
lemon-peel, and thyme, cut small; take some lean veal to make forcemeat,
with the ingredients before mentioned, only adding shalot and anchovies;
put some in the olives and some in the turkey, in a cloth; roast or bake
the olives. Take three anchovies, a little pepper, a quarter of a pint
of gravy, as much white wine; boil these with a little thyme till half
is consumed; then put in some butter, meat, oysters, mushrooms, fried
balls, and bacon; put all these in a pan, and pour on the turkey; lay
the olives round, and garnish the dish with pickles and lemon. If you
want sauce, add a little gravy, and serve it up.


_Turkey, with Oysters._

Boil your turkey, and serve with the same sauce as for pullets, only
adding a few mushrooms.


_Turkey à la Daube._

Bone a turkey, and season it with pepper and salt; spread over it some
slices of ham, over them some forcemeat, over that a fowl, boned, and
seasoned as the turkey, then more ham and forcemeat, and sew it up.
Cover the bottom of a stewpan with veal and ham cut in slices; lay in
the turkey breast downward: chop all the bones to pieces, and lay them
on the turkey; cover the pan close, and set it over the fire for five
minutes. Put as much clear broth as will cover it, and let it do for two
hours. When it is more than half done, put in one ounce of the best
isinglass and a bundle of sweet-herbs; skim off all the fat, and, when
it is cold, break it with whites of eggs as you do other jelly. Put part
of it into a pan or mould that will hold the turkey, and, when it is
cold, lay the turkey upon it with the breast downward; then cover it
with the rest of the jelly. When you serve it, turn it out whole upon
the dish.


_Roasted Turkey, delicate Gravy for._

Prepare a very rich brown gravy with truffles cut in it; slit the skins
off some chesnuts with a knife, and fry them in butter till thoroughly
done, but not burned, and serve them whole in the sauce. There may be a
few sausages about the turkey.


_Turkey or Veal stuffing._

Mix a quarter of a pound of beef suet, the same quantity of bread
crumbs, two drachms of parsley, a drachm and a half of sweet marjoram,
or lemon-thyme, and the same of grated lemon-peel; an onion or shalot
chopped fine, a little salt and pepper, and the yolks of two eggs, all
pounded well together. For a boiled turkey, add the soft part of a dozen
oysters, a little grated ham or tongue, and an anchovy, if you please.




GAME.


_Hare, to dress._

Stuff and lard the hare, trussing it as for roasting: put it into a
fish-kettle, with two quarts of strong beef gravy, one of red wine, a
bunch of sweet-herbs, some slices of lemon, pepper, salt, a few cloves,
and a nutmeg. Cover it up close, and let it simmer over a slow fire till
three parts done. Take it up, put it into a dish, and strew over it
crumbs of bread, a few sweet-herbs chopped fine, some grated lemon-peel,
and half a nutmeg. Set it before the fire, and baste it till it is of a
fine light brown; and, while it is doing, skim the gravy, thicken it
with the yolk of an egg and a piece of butter rolled in flour, and, when
done, put it in a dish, and the rest in a boat or terrine.


_Hare, to roast._

Take half a pint of cream, grate bread into it; a little winter savory,
thyme, and parsley; shred these very fine; half a nutmeg grated, and
half of the hare's liver, shred; beat an egg, yolk and white together,
and mix it in with it, and half a spoonful of flour if you think it too
light. Put it into the hare and sew it up. Have a quart of cream to
baste it with. When the hare is roasted, take some of the best of the
cream out of the dripping-pan, and make it fine and smooth by beating it
with a spoon. Have ready melted a little thick butter, and mix it with
the cream, and a little of the pudding out of the hare's belly, as much
as will make it thick.


_Another way._

Lard the hare well with bacon; make a pudding of grated bread, and chop
small the heart and liver, parboiled, with beef-suet and sweet-herbs.
With the marrow mix some eggs, spice, and cream; then sew it in the
belly of the hare; roast, and serve it up with butter, drawn with cream,
gravy, or claret.


_Hare, to hash._

Cut the hare into small pieces, and, if any stuffing is left, rub it
small in gravy, and put to it a glass of red wine, a little pepper,
salt, an onion, and a slice of lemon. Toss it up till hot through, and
then take out the lemon and onion.


_Hare, to jug._ No. 1.

Cut and put it into a jug, with the same ingredients as for stewing, but
no water or beer; cover it closely; set it in a kettle of boiling water,
and keep it boiling three hours, or until the hare is tender; then pour
your gravy into the stewpan, and put to it a glass of red wine and a
little cayenne; but if necessary put a little more of the gravy, thicken
it with flour; boil it up; pour it over the hare, and add a little
lemon-juice.


_Hare, to jug._ No. 2.

Cut and joint the hare into pieces; scald the liver and bruise it with a
spoon; mix it with a little beaten mace, grated lemon-peel, pepper,
salt, thyme, and parsley shred fine, and a whole onion stuck with a
clove or two; lay the head and neck at the bottom of the jar; lay on it
some seasoning, a very thin slice of fat bacon, then some hare, and
bacon, seasoned well in. Stop close the jug or jar with a cork, to
prevent any water getting in or the steam evaporating; set it in a pot
of hot water, and let it boil three hours; then have ready some strong
beef gravy boiling, and pour it into the jug till the hare is just
covered; shake it, pour it into your dish, and take out the onion.


_Hare, to jug._ No. 3.

Cut the hare in pieces, but do not wash it; season with an onion shred
fine, a bunch of sweet-herbs, such as thyme, parsley, sweet marjoram,
and the peel of one lemon. Cut half a pound of fat bacon into thin
slices; then put it into a jug, first a layer of hare and then one of
bacon; proceed thus till the jug is full: stop it close, that no steam
may escape; then put it in a pot of boiling water, and let it boil three
hours. Take up the jug; put in a quarter of a pound of butter mixed with
flour; set it in your kettle again for a quarter of an hour, then put it
in your dish. Garnish with lemon-peel.


_Hare, to jug._ No. 4.

Cut the hare in pieces, and half season and lard them. Put the hare into
a large-mouthed jug, with two onions stuck with cloves, and a faggot of
sweet-herbs; close down, and let it boil three hours. Take it out, and
serve up hot.


_Hare, to mince._

Boil the hare with onions, parsley, and apples, till tender; shred it
small, and put in a pint of claret, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg,
with two or three anchovies, and the yolks of twelve eggs boiled hard
and shred very small; stirring all well together. In serving up, put
sufficient melted butter to make it moist. Garnish the dish with whites
of eggs, cut in half, and some of the bones.


_Hare, to stew._

Cut off the legs and shoulders, and cut out the back bone; cut into
slices the meat that comes off the sides: put all these into a vessel
with three quarters of a pint of small beer, the same of water, a large
onion stuck with cloves, whole pepper, some salt, and a slice of lemon.
Let this stew gently for an hour closely covered, and then put a quart
of good gravy to it, stewing it gently two hours longer, till tender.
Take out the hare, and rub half a spoonful of smooth flour in a little
gravy; put it to the sauce and boil it up; add a little cayenne and salt
if necessary; put in the hare, and, when hot through, serve it up in a
terrine stand.


_Hare stuffing._

Two ounces of beef suet, three ounces of bread crumbs, a drachm of
parsley, half a drachm of shalot, the same of marjoram, lemon-thyme,
grated lemon-peel, and two yolks of egg.


_Partridge, to boil._

Cover them with water, and fifteen minutes will boil them.
Sauce--celery, liver, mushroom, or onion sauces.


_Partridge, to roast._

Half an hour will be sufficient; and for sauce, gravy and bread sauce.


_Partridge à la Paysanne._

When you have picked and drawn them, truss and put them on a skewer, tie
them to a spit, and lay them to roast. Put a piece of fat bacon on a
toasting fork, and hold it over the birds, that as it melts it may drop
upon them while roasting. After basting them well in this manner, strew
over a few crumbs of bread and a little salt, cut fine some shalots,
with a little gravy, salt and pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix
all these over the fire; thicken them up; pour them into a dish, and lay
your partridges upon them.


_Partridge à la Polonaise._

Pick and draw a brace of partridges, and put a piece of butter in their
bellies; nut them on the spit, and cover them with slices of bacon, and
over that with paper, and lay them down to a moderate fire. While
roasting, cut same shalots and parsley very small; mix these together,
adding slices of ginger with pepper and salt; take a piece of butter,
and work them up into a stiff paste. When the birds are nearly done,
take them up; gently raise the wings and legs, and under each put a
piece of paste; then hold them tight together, and squeeze over them a
little orange juice and a good deal of zest from the peel. Serve them up
hot with good gravy.


_Partridge à la Russe._

Pick, draw, and cut into quarters some young partridges, and put them
into white wine; set a stewpan with melted bacon over a brisk fire; then
put your partridges in, turning them two or three times. Add a glass of
brandy; set them over a slow fire, and, when they have stewed some time,
put in a few mushrooms cut into slices, with good gravy. Simmer them
briskly, and skim the fat off as it rises. When done, put in a piece of
butter rolled in flour, and squeeze in the juice of lemon.


_Partridge rolled._

Lard some young partridges with ham and bacon, and strew over some salt
and pepper, with beaten mace, sweet-herbs cut small, and some shred
lemon-peel. Take some thin beef steaks, taking care that they have no
holes in them, and strew over some seasoning, squeezing over some
lemon-juice. Lay a partridge upon each steak, roll it up, and tie it
round to keep it together, and pepper the outside. Set on a stewpan,
with some slices of bacon and an onion cut in pieces; then carefully lay
the partridges in, put some rich gravy to them, and stew gently till
they are done. Take the partridges out of the beef; lay them in a dish,
and pour over them some rich essence of ham.


_Partridge stewed._

Stuff the craws with bread crumbs, grated lemon-peel, a bit of butter,
shalot chopped, parsley, nutmeg, salt and pepper, and yolk of egg; rub
the inside with pepper and salt. Half roast them; then stew them with
rich gravy and a little Madeira, a piece of lemon-peel, an onion,
savory, and spice, if necessary, for about half an hour. Take out the
lemon-peel and onion, and thicken with a little flour; garnish with hard
yolks of eggs; add artichoke bottoms boiled and quartered.


_Salme of Partridges._

Cut up the partridges neatly into wings, legs, and breast; keep the
backs and rumps apart to put into sauce; take off all the skin very
clean, so that not a bit remains; then pare them all round, put them in
a stewpan, with a little jelly gravy, just to cover them; heat them
thoroughly, taking care they do not burn; strain off the gravy, and
leave the partridge in the pan away from the fire, covering the pan.
Take a large onion, three or four slices of ham, free from all fat, one
carrot, cut in dice, a dessert-spoonful of mushrooms, clear washed from
vinegar if they are pickled, two cloves, a little parsley and thyme, and
a bit of butter, of the size of a walnut; fry these lightly; add a glass
and a half of white wine, together with the jelly in which the
partridges were heated, and as much more as will make up a pint of rich
sauce, thickened with a little flour and butter; put in the parings of
the birds except the claws; let them stew for an hour and a half on the
corner of the stove; skim very clear; put in one lump of sugar, and
strain the whole through a sieve; put the saucepan containing the
partridges in boiling water, till thoroughly heated; lay the different
parts of the birds neatly in a very hot dish; pour the sauce over them;
have some slices of bread cut oval, rather broad at one end, neatly
fried; lay them round the dish, and serve up.


_Partridge, to pot._

For two brace of partridges take a small handful of salt, and of pepper,
mace, and cloves, a quarter of an ounce each. With these, when well
mixed, rub the birds thoroughly, inside and outside. Take a large piece
of butter, season it well, put it into them, and lay them in pots, with
the breasts downward. The pots must be large enough to admit the butter
to cover them while they bake. Set them in a moderate oven; let them
stand two hours; then take them out, and let them well drain from the
gravy. Put them again into the pots; clear the butter in which they were
baked through a sieve, and fill up the pots with it.


_Partridge Pie._

Bone your partridges, and stuff them with forcemeat, made of breast of
chicken and veal, ham and beef-suet, all chopped very fine, but not
pounded in a mortar, which would spoil it. Season with mace, pepper,
salt, a very little shalot, and lemon-peel. Put the whole into a
stewpan; keep it stirred; add three eggs; have a raised crust, and lay
thin slices of good fat bacon at the bottom and all round.


_Pheasant, to boil._

Boil the birds in abundance of water; if they are large, they will
require three quarters of an hour; if small, about half an hour. For
sauce--stewed white celery, thickened with cream, and a bit of butter
rolled in flour; pour this over them.


_Pheasant, with white sauce._

Truss the bird with the legs inward, (like a fowl for boiling); singe it
well; take a little butter and the fat of some bacon, and fry the
pheasant white; when sufficiently firm, take it out of the pan; then put
a spoonful of flour into the butter; fry this flour white; next add a
pint of veal or game jelly; put in a few mushrooms, if pickled to be
well washed; cut small a bunch of parsley, a large onion, a little
thyme, one clove, a pinch of salt, cayenne pepper, and a small lump of
sugar; stew the bird in this sauce till done; this may be known by
putting a fork into the flesh, and seeing that no blood issues out; then
skim off the fat and drain the pheasant; then strain and boil the gravy
in which it has been stewed; have ready a few mushrooms fried white in
butter; then thicken the gravy with the yolk of four eggs and two
table-spoonfuls of cream, throw in the mushrooms, place the pheasant in
a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve it up.


_Pheasant à la Braise._

Put a layer of beef, the same of veal, at the bottom of the stewpan,
with a thin slice of bacon, a little bit of carrot, an onion stuck with
cloves, a bunch of sweet-herbs, some black and white pepper, and a
little beaten mace, and put in your pheasant; put over it a layer of
veal and the same of beef; set it on the fire for five or six minutes;
then pour two quarts of boiling water, cover it down close, and put a
damp cloth round the outside of the cover to prevent the steam escaping:
it must stew gently for an hour and a half; then take up the pheasant
and keep it hot, and let the gravy stew till reduced to about a pint;
strain it off, and put it into a saucepan, with a sweetbread, which must
have been stewed with the bird, some liver of fowls, morels, truffles,
artichoke bottoms, and the tops of asparagus, and let these simmer in
the gravy; add two spoonfuls of red wine and of ketchup, and a piece of
butter rolled in flour; let them stew for five or six minutes: lay the
pheasant in the dish, pour the ragout over it, and lay forcemeat balls
round it.


_Pheasant à l'Italienne._

Cut the liver small: and to one bird take but six oysters; parboil them,
and put them into a stewpan with the liver, a piece of butter, some
parsley, green onions, pepper and salt, sweet-herbs, and a little
allspice; let them stand a little over the fire, and stuff the pheasant
with them; then put it into a stewpan, with some oil, green onions,
sweet basil, parsley, and lemon juice, for a few minutes; take them off,
cover your pheasant with slices of bacon, and put it upon a spit, tying
some paper round it while roasting. Then take some oysters, and stew
them in their own liquor a little, and put in your stewpan four yolks of
eggs, half a lemon cut in dice, a little beaten pepper, scraped nutmeg,
parsley cut small, an anchovy cut small, a rocambole, a little oil, a
small glass of white wine, a little of ham cullis; put the sauce over
the fire to thicken, then put in the oysters, and make the sauce
relishing, and, when the pheasant is done, lay it in the dish, and pour
the sauce over it.


_Pheasant, Puré of._

Chop the fleshy parts of a pheasant, the wings, breast, and legs, very
fine, and pound them well in a mortar. Warm a pint of veal jelly, and
stew the bird in it. Strain the whole through a sieve. Mix it all to the
consistency of mashed potatoes. Serve in a dish with fried bread round
it.


_Widgeon, to dress._

To eat widgeon in perfection, half roast the birds. When they come to
table, slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour on a little red
wine, and squeeze the juice of an orange or lemon over; put some gravy
to this; set the plate on a lamp; cut up the bird; let it remain over
the lamp till enough done, turning it. A widgeon will take nearly twenty
minutes to roast, to eat plain with good gravy only.


_Wild Duck, to roast._

It will take full twenty minutes--gravy sauce to eat with it.


_Woodcocks and Snipes, to roast._

Twenty minutes will roast the woodcocks, and fifteen the snipes. Put
under either, while roasting, a toast to receive the trail, which lay
under them in the dish. Melted butter and good gravy for sauce.


_Woodcocks à la Française._

Pick them, then draw and truss them; let their breasts be larded with
broad pieces of bacon; roast and serve them up on toasts dipped in
verjuice.


_Woodcocks, to pot._

The same as you pot pigeons.




SAUCES.


_Essence of Anchovies._

Take two pounds of anchovies, one ounce of bay salt, three pints of
spring water, half a gill of red port, half a gill mushroom ketchup; put
them into a saucepan until the anchovies are all dissolved; let them
boil; strain off the liquor with a one hair sieve, and be careful not to
cork it until it is quite cold.


_Anchovy Pickle._

Take two pounds of bay salt, three quarters of a pound of saltpetre,
three pints of spring water, and a very little bole armeniac, to grate
on the liquor to give it a colour; it must not be put to the anchovies
until it is cold.

If anchovies are quite dry, put them into a jar, with a layer of bay
salt at the bottom, and a little on the top.


_Anchovy Sauce._

Take one or two anchovies; scale, split, and put them into a saucepan,
with a little water, or good broth, a spoonful of vinegar, and a small
round onion. When the anchovy is quite dissolved, strain off the liquor,
and put into your melted butter to your taste.


_To recover Anchovies._

When anchovies have, through the loss of the pickle, become rusty or
decayed, put two pounds of saltpetre to a gallon of water, and boil it
till reduced to a fourth part, continuing to skim it as it rises; then
add a quarter of an ounce of crystal tartar; mix these, and stir them
well. Take away the spoiled fish, put them together lightly, and pour in
the new pickle, mixed with a pint of good old pickle, and stop them up
close for twenty-four days. When you open them again, cover them with
fine beaten bay salt; let them remain about four days; and, as you take
them out for use, cover them carefully down.


_Bacchanalian Sauce._

Take a spoonful of sweet oil, a gill of good broth, and a pint of white
wine vinegar, adding two glasses of strong white wine: boil them
together till half is consumed; then put in some shalot, garden cresses,
tarragon, chervil, parsley, and scallions, all shred very fine, with
some large pepper. Let the whole boil up, and serve it. A little cullis
added will improve it.


_Bechamel, or White Sauce._ No. 1.

Take half a quarter of a pound of butter, three pounds of veal, cut into
small slices, a quarter of a pound of ham, some trimmings of mushrooms,
truffles, and morels, two white onions, a bunch of parsley, and thyme,
put the whole into a stewpan, and set it on the fire till the meat is
made firm; then put in three spoonfuls of flour, moistened with boiling
hot thin cream. Keep this sauce rather thin, so that while you reduce it
the ingredients may have time to be stewed thoroughly. Season with a
little salt and cayenne pepper, and strain it through a sieve. This is
excellent for pouring over roast veal instead of butter, and is a good
sauce for hashed veal, for any white meat, and for all sorts of
vegetables.


_Bechamel._ No. 2.

Two pounds of lean veal, cut in square pieces, half an inch thick; half
a pound of lean ham. Melt in your stewpan two ounces of butter; simmer
it until nearly ready to catch the stewpan, which must be avoided: add
three table-spoonfuls of flour. When well mixed, add three pints of
broth, or water, pouring in a little at a time that the thickening may
be smooth. Stir till it boils; set it on the corner of the hob to boil
gently for two hours. Season with an onion, twelve peppercorns, a few
mushrooms, a faggot of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf. Let
the sauce be reduced to a quart; skim off the fat; and strain through a
tamis.


_Bechamel._ No. 3.

Proceed much in the same way as for the brown sauce, (see Cullis) only
it is not to be drawn down brown, but filled up and thickened with flour
and water, some good cream added to it, and then strained.


_Sauce for Beef Bouilli._

Four hard eggs well mixed up with half a table-spoonful of made mustard,
eight capers, and one table spoonful of Reading sauce.


_Sauce for boiled Beef à la Russe._

Scrape a large stick of horseradish, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it
with the beef; when boiled a little, put it into some melted butter;
boil it some time, and send it up in the butter. Some persons like to
have it sent up in vinegar.


_Bread Sauce._ No. 1.

Put into half a pint of water a good sized piece of bread-crumb, not
new, with an onion, a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, in a bit of
cloth; boil them a few minutes; take out the onion and spice, mash the
bread smooth, add a little salt and a piece of butter.


_Bread Sauce._ No. 2.

Take a French roll, or white bread crumb; set it on the fire, with some
good broth or gravy, a small bag of peppercorns, and a small onion; add
a little good cream, and a little pepper and salt; you may rub it
through a sieve or not.


_Bread Sauce._ No. 3.

Take the crumb of a French roll; put it into a saucepan, with two large
onions, some white peppercorns, and about a pint of water. Let it boil
over a slow fire till the onions are very tender; then drain off the
water; rub the bread and onions through a hair sieve; put the pulp into
a stewpan, with a bit of butter, a little salt, and a gill of cream; and
keep it stirring till it boils.


_Bread Sauce._ No. 4.

Put bread crumbs into a stewpan with as much milk as will soak them;
moisten with broth; add an onion and a few peppercorns. Let it boil or
simmer till it becomes stiff: then add two table-spoonfuls of cream,
melted butter, or good broth. Take out the onion and peppercorns when
ready to serve.


_Bread Sauce for Pig._

To the sauce made as directed in No. 1 add a few currants picked and
washed, and boil them in it.


_Browning for made dishes._

Beat four ounces of loaf sugar very fine: put it into an iron
frying-pan, with an ounce of butter; set it over a clear fire, mixing it
well all the time: when it begins to be frothy, the sugar is dissolving;
hold it high over the fire. When the butter and sugar is of a deep
brown, pour in a little white wine; stir it well; add a little more
wine, stirring it all the time. Put in the rind of a lemon, a little
salt, three spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, half an ounce of whole
allspice, four shalots peeled; boil them slowly eight minutes, then pour
into a basin, cover it close, and let it stand till next day. Skim and
bottle it. A pint of white wine is the proper quantity for these
ingredients.


_Another._

Take some brown sugar, put a little water to it, set it on the fire, and
let it boil till it nearly comes to burning, but it must not quite burn,
as it would then be bitter: put some water to it, and when cold strain
it off, and put it in a bottle. When you want to give a higher colour to
gravy or sauce, you will find this very useful.


_Butter, to burn._

Put your butter into a frying-pan over a slow fire; when it is melted,
dust in some flour, and keep stirring it till it is thick and brown:
then thicken some with it.


_Butter, to clarify._

Let it slowly melt and then stand a little; and when it is poured into
pots, leave the milk, which will settle at the bottom.


_Another way._

Melt the butter, and skim it well before it is poured upon any thing.


_Plain melted Butter--very simple, but rarely well done._

Keep either a plated or tin saucepan for the sole purpose of melting
butter. Put into it a little water and a dust of flour, and shake them
together. Cut the butter in slices; as it melts, shake it one way; let
it boil up, and it will be smooth and thick.

_Another._

Mix a little flour and water out of the dredger, that it may not be
lumpy; then put in a piece of butter, set it over a quick fire; have it
on and off every instant to shake it, and it will not oil, but will
become thick and smooth.


_To thicken Butter for Peas, &c._

Put two or three spoonfuls of water in a saucepan, sufficient to cover
the bottom. When it boils, put half a pound of butter; when it is
melted, take off the saucepan, and shake it round a good while, till
very smooth.


_Caper Sauce._

Chop half of the capers, and the rest put in whole; chop also a little
parsley very fine, with a little bread grated very fine, and add salt:
put these into smooth melted butter.


_Carp Sauce._

One pint of Lisbon wine, with a small quantity of mace, cloves, and
cinnamon, three anchovies, a bit of bay-leaf, a little horseradish not
scraped, and a slice or two of onion; let the whole boil about a quarter
of an hour, and, when cold, mix as much flour with the sauce as will
make it of a proper thickness. Set it over the stove; keep it stirred
till it boils. Just before you serve up, put in a quarter of a pint of
cream, more or less according to the thickness of your sauce.

Boil the carp in as much water as will cover them, with some wine, a
little vinegar, and slices of lemon and onion.


_Another._

Four large anchovies, eight spoonfuls of white wine, four of vinegar,
two onions, whole, a nutmeg quartered, some mace, whole pepper, two or
three cloves; boil it nearly half away, then strain it off, thicken it
with butter and flour, and three spoonfuls of thick cream; the sauce
should not be too thick.


_Light brown Sauce for Carp._

To the blood of the carp put thyme, parsley, onions, and anchovies; chop
all these small, and put them together in a saucepan. Add half a pint of
white wine, a quarter of a pint of elder vinegar, and a little tarragon
vinegar: mix all these together, set the pan on the fire, and boil till
it is almost dry. Mix some melted butter with the sauce, and pour it on
the fish, being plain boiled.


_Sauce for Carp and Tench._

Boil a pint of strong gravy drawn from beef, with three or four
anchovies, a small bit of lemon-peel and horseradish, a little mushroom
ketchup, and a great deal of black pepper. When boiled enough, strain it
off, and when it is cold take off all the fat. Then add nearly half a
pound of butter, well mixed with flour, to make it of a proper
thickness. When it boils, add a cupful of red wine and a little
lemon-juice.


_White Sauce for Carp._

Boil half a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of elder vinegar, a
little tarragon vinegar, half a pint of water, a bunch of sweet-herbs,
an onion stuck with cloves, and some mace, till the goodness is out of
the ingredients. Thicken with melted butter, the yolk of an egg beat,
and a quarter of a pint of good cream.


_Dutch Sauce for Carp or Tench._

Take six fine anchovies well washed and picked, put them in a stewpan,
add to them four spoonfuls of vinegar, eight spoonfuls of water, one
large onion sliced, two or three blades of mace, and four or five
cloves. Let them stand one hour before the sauce is wanted; set them on
the stove, and give them a boil up; strain the liquor into a clean
stewpan; then add the yolks of four eggs well beaten; put to it some
good thick melted butter; add half a pint of very nice thick cream. Mix
all these well together; put it on a slow fire; stir it till it boils;
season to your taste.


_Carp Sauce, for Fish._

Put a little lean bacon and some slices of veal at the bottom of a
stewpan, with three or four pieces of carp, four anchovies, an onion,
two shalots, and tarragon, or any root to flavour to your taste. Let it
remain over a very slow fire for half an hour, and, when it begins to
thicken, or to stick to the pan, moisten it with a large glass of white
wine, two spoonfuls of cullis, and the same quantity of broth. Skim and
strain it through a sieve; it will want no salt.


_Cavechi, an Indian Pickle._ No. 1.

This is excellent for sauce. Into a pint of vinegar put two cloves of
garlic, two spoonfuls of red pepper, two large spoonfuls of India soy,
and four of walnut pickle, with as much cochineal as will colour it, two
dozen large anchovies boned and dissolved in the juice of three lemons,
and one spoonful of mustard. Use it as an addition to fish and other
sauce, or in any other way, according to your palate.


_Cavechi._ No. 2.

Take three cloves, four scruples of coriander seed, bruised ginger, and
saffron, of each ten grains, three cloves of garlic, and one pint of
white wine vinegar. Infuse all together by the fireside for a fortnight.
Shake it every day; strain off the liquor, and bottle it for use. You
may add to it a pinch of cayenne.


_Cavechi._ No. 3.

One pint of vinegar, half an ounce of cayenne, two table-spoonfuls of
soy, two of walnut pickle, two of ketchup, four cloves of garlic, and
three shalots cut small; mix them well together.


_Celery Sauce, white._

Make some strong boiled gravy, with veal, a good deal of spice, and
sweet-herbs; put these into a stewpan with celery cut into pieces of
about two or three inches in length, ready boiled, and thicken it with
three quarters of a pound of butter rolled in flour, and half a pint of
cream. Boil this up, and squeeze in some lemon-juice; pour some of it
into the dish.

This is an excellent sauce for boiled turkey, fowl, or veal. When the
stuffing is made for turkey, make some of it into balls, and boil them.


_Celery Sauce, brown._

Put the celery, cut into pieces about an inch long, and the onions
sliced, with a small lump of butter; stew them on a slow fire till quite
tender; add two spoonfuls of flour, half a pint of veal or beef broth,
salt, pepper, and a little milk or cream. Boil it a quarter of an hour.


_Sauce for boiled Chickens._

Take the yolks of four eggs, three anchovies, a little of the middle of
bacon, and the inside of half a lemon; chop them all very fine; add a
little thyme and sweet marjoram; thicken them all well together with
butter, and pour it over the chickens.


_Another._

Shred some anchovies very fine, with the livers of the chickens and some
hard eggs; take a little of the boiling water in which the chickens were
boiled, to melt the butter. Add some lemon juice, with a little of the
peel cut small.


_Sauce for cold Chicken or Game._

Chop a boned anchovy or two, some parsley, and a small onion; add
pepper, oil, vinegar, mustard, and ketchup, and mix them all together.


_White Sauce for Chickens._

Half a pint of cream, with a little veal gravy, three tea-spoonfuls of
the essence of anchovies, half a tea-spoonful of vinegar, one small
onion, one dozen cloves: thicken it with flour and butter; rub it
through a sieve, and add a table-spoonful of sherry.


_Consommé._

To make this foundation of all sauces, take knuckle of veal and some new
ham. One pound of ham will be sufficient for six pounds of veal, with
onions and roots of different sorts, and draw it down to a light colour:
fill up with beef broth, if there is not enough. When the scum rises,
skim it well, and let it simmer gently for three or four hours, keeping
it well skimmed. Strain it off for use.


_Cream Sauce for White Dishes._

Put a bit of butter into a stewpan, with parsley, scallions, and
shalots, the whole shred fine, and a clove of garlic entire; turn it a
few times over the fire; shake in some flour, and moisten it with two or
three spoonfuls of good cream. Boil it a quarter of an hour, strain off
the sauce, and, when you are ready to use it, put in a little good
butter, with some parsley parboiled and chopped very fine, salt, and
whole pepper, thickening it over the fire.


_Cullis, to thicken Sauces._

Take carrot, turnip, onion; put them in the bottom of a stewpan; slice
some veal and ham, and lay over your carrot, with thyme, parsley, and
seasoning; put this over a fire gently; when it sticks to the bottom,
pour in some good stock, put in the crumb of some French rolls, boil
them up together, strain it through a sieve, and rub the bread through;
this will thicken any brown sauce.

Fish cullis must be as above, only with fish instead of meat.


_Brown Cullis._

Take two pounds of veal and half a pound of ham, with two or three
onions; put a little bit of butter in the bottom of your stewpan, and
lay in it the veal and ham cut small, with the onions in slices, a
little of the spices of different sorts, and a small piece of bay leaf.
Let it stew gently over the stove until it comes to a fine colour; then
fill it up with broth, but, if you have no broth, with water; then make
some smooth flour and water, and put it to it, until you find it thick
enough: let it boil gently half an hour; skim the grease from it, and
strain it.


_Another._

Put a piece of butter in a stewpan; set it over a fire with some flour
to it; keep it stirring till it is of a good colour; then put some gravy
to it; this cullis will thicken any sauce.


_Cullis à la Reine, or Queen's Stock._

Cut some veal into thin slices; beat them, and lay them in a stewpan,
with some slices of ham; cut a couple of onions small, and put them in;
cut to pieces half a dozen mushrooms and add them to the rest, with a
bunch of parsley; and set them on a very gentle stove fire to stew. When
they are quite done, and the liquor is rich and high tasted, take out
all the meat, and put in some grated bread; boil up once, stirring them
thoroughly.


_Turkey Cullis._

Roast a large turkey till it is brown; cut it in pieces; put it into a
marble mortar, with some ham, parsley, chives, mushrooms, a handful of
each, and a crust of bread; beat them up into a paste. Take it out, and
put it into a deep stewpan, with a pint of veal broth; stir it all well
together; cover it, and set it over the stove; turn it constantly,
adding more veal broth. When thoroughly dissolved, pass it through a
hair sieve, and keep it for use. It will give any sauce a fine flavour;
but cullises are generally used for the sorts of meat of which they are
made. Some of the above, for instance, would make an excellent sauce for
a turkey, added to any other gravy; then put them over a slow fire to
stew gently. Take the flesh of a fine fowl, already roasted, from the
bones; beat it in a marble mortar; add this to the cullis in the
stewpan. Stir it well together, but take great care that it does not
boil; pound three dozen of sweet almonds blanched to a thin paste, in a
marble mortar, with a little boiled milk; add it to the cullis, and,
when the whole is dissolved, it is fit for use. This is good for all
white sauces and white soups.


_Cullis of Veal, or any other Meat._

Put some small pieces of veal into a stewpan, with the like quantity of
ham, about a pound to a quarter of a pint of water. Stew gently with
onions and different herbs, till all the juice of the meat is extracted;
then boil it quicker, till it begins to stick to the dish. Take the meat
and vegetables out of the pan; add a little butter and flour to the
gravy; boil it till it becomes of a good colour; then add, if you like,
some good broth; put the meat in again to simmer for two hours; skim it
well; strain through a sieve, and keep it for use.


_Dandy Sauce, for all sorts of Poultry and Game._

Put a glass of white wine into a stewpan, with half a lemon cut in
slices, a little rasped bread, two spoonfuls of oil, a bunch of parsley
and scallions, a handful of mushrooms, a clove of garlic, a little
tarragon, one clove, three spoonfuls of rich cullis, and a thin slice of
fine smoked ham. Let the whole boil together till it is of a fine rich
consistency; pass it through the sieve; then give it another turn over
the fire, and serve it up hot.


_Devonshire Sauce._

Cut any quantity of young walnuts into small pieces; sprinkle a little
salt on them; next day, pound them in a mortar and squeeze the juice
through a coarse thin cloth, such as is used for cheese. To a pint of
juice add a pound of anchovies, and boil them slowly till the anchovies
are dissolved. Strain it; add half a pint of white wine vinegar, half an
ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves, and forty peppercorns; boil it a
quarter of an hour, and, when cold, rack it off and bottle it. A quarter
of a pint of vinegar put to the dregs that have been strained off, and
well boiled up, makes an excellent seasoning for the cook's use in
hashes, fish sauce, &c.


_Sauce for Ducks._

Stew the giblets till the goodness is extracted, with a small piece of
lean bacon, either dressed or not, a little sprig of lemon-thyme, some
parsley, three or four sage leaves, a small onion quartered, a few
peppercorns, and plenty of lemon-peel. Stew all these well together;
strain and put in a large spoonful of port wine, a little cayenne pepper
and butter, and flour it to thicken.


_Dutch Sauce._

Put into a saucepan some vinegar and water with a piece of butter;
thicken it with the yolks of two eggs; squeeze into it the juice of a
lemon, and strain it through a sieve.


_Dutch Sauce for Fish._

Slice a little horseradish, and put it into a quarter of a pint of
water, with five or six anchovies, half a handful of white peppercorns,
a small onion, half a bay-leaf, and a very little lemon peel, cut as
thin as possible. Let it boil a quarter of an hour; then strain and
thicken with flour and butter and the yolk of an egg. Add a little elder
vinegar, and then squeeze it through a tamis. It must not boil after
being strained, or it will curdle.


_Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish._

Put two or three table-spoonfuls of water, as many of vinegar, and as
many of broth, into a saucepan, with a piece of butter; thicken it with
the yolks of two eggs. If for fish, add four anchovies; if not, leave
them out. Squeeze into it the juice of a lemon, and strain it through a
sieve.


_Dutch Sauce for Trout._

Put into a stewpan a tea-spoonful of floor, four of vinegar, a quarter
of a pound of butter, the yolks of five eggs, and a little salt. Set it
on the fire, and keep continually stirring. When thick enough, work it
well that you may refine it; pass it through a sieve; season with a
little cayenne pepper, and serve up.


_Egg Sauce._

Take two or three eggs, or more if you like, and boil them hard; chop
the whites first and then the yolks with them, and put them into melted
butter.


_The Exquisite._

Put a little cullis into a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of a
walnut rolled in twice as much flour, salt, and large pepper, the yolks
of two eggs, three or four shalots cut small, and thicken it over the
fire. This sauce, which should be very thick, is to be spread over meat
or fish, which is afterwards covered with finely grated bread, and
browned with a hot salamander.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 1.

One pound of anchovies, stripped from the salt, and rinsed in a little
port wine, a quarter of an ounce of mace, twelve cloves, two races of
ginger sliced, a small onion or shalot, a small sprig of thyme, and
winter savory, put into a quart of port wine, and half a pint of
vinegar. Stew them over a slow fire covered close; strain the liquor
through a hair sieve, cover it till cold, and put it in dry bottles. By
adding a pint of port wine and the wine strained that the anchovies were
rinsed in you may make an inferior sort. When used, shake it up: take
two spoonfuls to a quarter of pound of butter; if not thick enough add a
little flour.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 2.

Take a pint of red wine, twelve anchovies, one onion, four cloves, a
nutmeg sliced, as much beaten pepper as will lie upon a half-crown, a
bit of horseradish sliced, a little thyme, and parsley, a blade of mace,
a gill of vinegar, two bay-leaves. Simmer these all together until the
anchovies are dissolved; then strain it off, and, when cold, bottle it
up close. Shake the bottle up when you use it; take two table-spoonfuls
to a quarter of a pound of butter, without flour and water, and let it
boil.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 3.

Take chili pods, bruise them well in a marble mortar, strain off the
juice. To a pint bottle of juice add a table-spoonful of brandy and a
spoonful of salt. The refuse put into vinegar makes good chili vinegar.
This is an excellent relishing sauce.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 4.

Take some gravy, an onion sliced, some anchovies washed, thyme, parsley,
sliced horseradish, and seasoning; boil these together. Strain off the
liquor; put into it a bit of thickening and some butter. Draw this up
together, and squeeze in a lemon. You may add shrimps or oysters. If for
lobster sauce, you must cut your lobster in slices, and beat the spawn
in a mortar, with a bit of lobster, to colour your sauce.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 5.

A faggot of sweet-herbs, some onion, and anchovy, with a slice of lemon,
boiled in small gravy or water; strain, and thicken it with butter and
flour, adding a spoonful of soy, or more, if agreeable to your taste.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 6.

Take some of the liquor in which you boil the fish; add to it mace,
anchovies, lemon-peel, horseradish, thyme, a little vinegar, and white
wine; thicken it up with butter, as much as will serve for the fish. If
it is for salmon, put in oysters, shrimps, and cockles; take away the
liquor, and boil the whole in vinegar.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 7.

Take a quarter of a pint of vinegar, the same of white wine, a quarter
of an ounce of mace, the same of cloves, pepper, and six large
anchovies, a stick of horseradish, an onion, a sprig of thyme, and a bit
of lemon-peel; boil all together over the fire; strain it off, and melt
your butter for the sauce.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 8.

Take half a pint of cream and half a pint of strong broth; thicken them
with flour and butter, and when it boils put in it a little anchovy and
lemon-juice, and put it over your fish.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 9.

To every pint of walnut liquor put one pound of anchovies; boil them
till quite dissolved, and strain off the liquor. To a quart of the
liquor put one pint of vinegar, a quarter of an ounce of a mixture of
cloves, mace, allspice, and long pepper, and a dozen shalots. Boil again
till they are very tender; strain off the liquor, and bottle it for use.
This is an excellent sauce.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 10.

Boil a bit of horseradish and anchovy in gravy with a little lemon-peel
and mace; add some cream; thicken it with flour and butter. If you have
no gravy, ketchup is a good substitute; but a little always put in is
good.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 11.

Boil a piece or two of horseradish in gravy; put into it a bit of mace
and lemon-peel; add a little anchovy, either before or after it has been
boiled; thicken with cream, and add a spoonful of elderberry vinegar:
let the acid be the last thing for fear of curdling it. If you have no
gravy, ketchup and water is a good substitute.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 12.

Take a quarter of a pint of gravy, well boiled with a bit of onion,
lemon-peel, and horseradish, four or five cloves, a blade of mace, and a
spoonful of ketchup; boil it till it is reduced to four or five
spoonfuls; then strain it off, and put to it four or five spoonfuls of
cream; thicken it with butter, and put in a spoonful of elder vinegar or
lemon-juice: anchovies are sometimes added.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 13.

Take two quarts of claret or port, a pint, or more, to your taste, of
the best vinegar, which should be tart, one pound of anchovies unwashed,
the pickle of them and all, half an ounce of mace, half a quarter of an
ounce of cloves, six or eight races of ginger, a good piece of
horseradish, a spoonful of cayenne pepper, half the peel of a lemon, a
bunch of winter savory and thyme, and three or four onions, a piece of
garlic, and one shalot. Stew all these over a slow fire for an hour;
then strain the liquor through a coarse sieve, and bottle it. You may
stew the ingredients over again with more wine and vinegar for present
use. When you use it, it must be put into the saucepan with the butter,
instead of water, and melt it together. If you keep it close stopped, it
will be good many years.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 14.

Take twenty-four large anchovies, bones and all, ten or twelve shalots,
a handful of horseradish, four blades of mace, one quart of Rhenish, or
any white wine, one pint of water, one lemon cut in slices, half a pint
of anchovy liquor, one pint of claret, twelve cloves, half a
tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper: boil them till reduced to a quart;
strain off and bottle the liquor. Two spoonfuls will be sufficient to
one pound of butter.


_Fish Sauce._ No. 15.

A spoonful of red wine, and the same of anchovy liquor, put into melted
butter.


_An excellent white Fish Sauce._

An anchovy, a glass of white wine, a bit of horseradish, two or three
blades of mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, two
eggs, a quarter of a pint of good broth, two spoonfuls of cream, a large
piece of butter, with some flour mixed well in it; keep stirring it till
it boils; add a little ketchup, and a small dessert spoonful of the
juice of a lemon, and stir it the whole time to prevent curdling. Serve
up hot.


_Another._

Take eight spoonfuls of white wine, three of vinegar, one of soy or
ketchup, three anchovies, one onion, a few sweet-herbs, a little mace,
cloves, and white pepper; let it stew gently till it is reduced to six
spoonfuls; then strain it off, and add half a pound of fresh butter
rolled in a little flour, and six spoonfuls of cream. Let it boil after
the cream and butter are added.


_White Sauce, with Capers and Anchovies, for any White Fish._

Put a bit of butter, about the size of an egg, rolled in flour, into a
stewpan; dilute it with a large wine glass of veal broth, two anchovies,
cut fine, minced parsley, and two spoonfuls of cream. Stew it slowly,
till it is of the proper consistency.


_Fish Stock._

Put into a pot a scate, cut in pieces, with turnips, carrots, thyme,
parsley, and onion. Cut in pieces an eel or two, and some flounders; put
them into a stewpan with a piece of butter; stew them down till they go
to pieces; put them to your scate; boil the whole well, and strain it
off.


_Forcemeat Balls, for Sauces._

To make forcemeat balls for soups, without grease, commonly called
_quenelles_, soak the crumb of two penny rolls in milk for about half an
hour; take it out, and squeeze out the milk; put the bread into a
stewpan, with a little white sauce, made of veal jelly, a little butter,
flour, and cream, seasoned, a spoonful of beef or mutton jelly, some
parsley, shalots, and thyme, minced very fine. Stew these herbs in a
little butter, to take off their rawness. Set them to reduce the panada
of bread and milk, which you must keep constantly stirring with a wooden
spoon, when the panada begins to get dry in the pan, which prevents its
sticking; when quite firm, take it from the fire, and mix with it the
yolks of two eggs. Let it cool, and use when wanted.

This panada must always be prepared beforehand, in order to have it
cold, for it cannot be used warm; when cold, roll it into balls, but let
them be small; pound the whole as large as possible in a mortar, for the
more they are pounded the more delicate they are. Then break two eggs,
and pound them likewise; season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, salt,
and spices, in powder. When the whole is well mixed together, try a
small bit, rolling it with a little flour, then putting it into boiling
water with a little salt; if it should not be firm enough, add another
egg, without beating the white. When the whole is mixed once more, rub
it through a sieve, roll it into balls, and serve up hot in sauces.


_White Sauce, for Fowls._

Some good veal gravy, boiled with an anchovy or onion, some lemon-peel,
and a very little ketchup. Put in it the yolk of hard egg to thicken it,
and add what cream you think proper.


_Another._

Take a pint of milk, the yolks of two eggs, well beaten, a spoonful of
mushroom pickle, a little salt, nutmeg, a small piece of butter, rolled
in flour; stir all together till thick. Pour it over the fowls, and
garnish with lemon or parsley.


_White Sauce, for boiled Fowls._

Have ready a sauce, made of one pint of veal jelly, half a quarter of a
pound of butter, two small onions, and a bunch of parsley; then put
three table-spoonfuls of flour, half a pint of boiling hot cream, the
yolks of three eggs, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and the same of salt;
boil all up together, till of a tolerable thickness; keep it hot, and
take care that it does not curdle. Make ready some slices of truffles,
about thirty-four, the size and thickness of a shilling, boil them in a
little meat jelly; strain them, and add the truffles to the sauce
previously made. When ready to serve, pour the sauce and truffles over
whatever meat they are destined for.


_Sauce, for roasted Fowls of all kinds, or roasted Mutton._

Cut some large onions into square pieces; cut some fat bacon in the same
manner, and a slice of lean ham; put them in a stewpan; shake them round
constantly, to prevent their burning. When they are of a fine brown
colour, put in some good cullis, more or less, according to the quantity
you want to make. Let them stew very gently, till the onions are
tender; then put in two tea-spoonfuls of mustard, and one table-spoonful
of vinegar. Serve it hot.


_A very good general Sauce._

Take some mint, balm, basil, thyme, parsley, and sage; pick them from
the stalks, cut them very fine, slice two large onions very thin; then
put all the ingredients into a marble mortar, and beat them till they
are quite mixed; add some cayenne pepper and salt; beat all these well
together, and mix them by degrees in some good cullis, till it is of the
thickness of cream. Put them in a stewpan, boil them up; strain the
gravy from the herbs, pressing it from them very hard with the back of a
spoon; add to the gravy half a glass of wine, half a spoonful of salad
oil, the squeeze of a lemon, and a pinch of sugar. This sauce is
excellent for most dishes.


_Genoese Sauce for stewed Fish._

This sauce is made by stewing fish. Make marinade of carrots, parsley
roots, onions, mushrooms, a bay-leaf, some thyme, a blade of mace, a few
cloves, and some spices: fry the whole white in butter; pour in a pint
of white wine, or less, according to the quantity of sauce required; put
in the fish, and let it stew thoroughly to make the sauce. Then take a
little browned flour and butter, and mix it with the reserved liquor;
add three or four spoonfuls of gravy from veal jelly; let these stew
very gently on the corner of the stove; skim off the grease; put in a
little salt and cayenne pepper, and add two spoonfuls of the essence of
anchovy and a quarter of a pound of butter kneaded with flour. Squeeze
in the juice of a whole lemon, and cover the stewed fish with this
sauce, which ought to be made thick and mellow.


_German Sauce._

Put the same quantity of meat jelly and fresh made broth into a stewpan,
with a little parsley parboiled and chopped, the livers of two roasted
or boiled fowls, an anchovy, and some capers, the whole shred very fine,
a bit of butter about the size of an egg, half a clove of garlic, salt,
and a little cayenne pepper. Thicken it over the fire.

Exceedingly good with poultry, pigeons, &c.


_Beef Gravy._

Cut in pieces some lean beef, according to the quantity of gravy you may
want; put it into a stewpan, with an onion or two, sliced, and a little
carrot; cover it close, set it over a gentle fire, and pour off the
gravy as it draws from it. Then let the meat brown; keep turning it to
prevent its burning, pour over some boiling water, and add a few cloves,
peppercorns, a bit of lemon, and a bunch of sweet-herbs. Gently simmer
it, and strain it with the gravy that was drawn from the meat, some
salt, and a spoonful of ketchup.


_Beef Gravy, to keep for use._

Cover a piece of six or eight pounds with water; boil it for twenty
minutes or half an hour: then take out the meat, beat it thoroughly, and
cut it in pieces, to let out the gravy. Put it again into the water,
with a bunch of sweet-herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, a little salt,
and some whole pepper. Let it stew, but not boil, till the meat is quite
consumed; pass it through a sieve, and let it stand in a cool place. It
will keep for a week, if the weather is not very hot. If you want to use
this for a hash of brown meat, put a little butter in your frying-pan,
shake in a little flour as it boils, and add a glass of claret: if for a
white sauce to fowls or veal, melt the butter in the gravy, with a glass
of white wine, two spoonfuls of cream, and the yolks of four or six
eggs, according to the quantity of sauce required.


_Brown Gravy._

Put a piece of butter, about the size of a hen's egg, into a saucepan;
when it is melted, shake in a little flour, and let it brown; then by
degrees stir in the following ingredients: half a pint of small beer,
the same quantity of water, an onion, a piece of lemon-peel cut small,
three cloves, a blade of mace, some whole pepper, a spoonful of
mushroom-pickle, the same quantity of ketchup, and an anchovy. Let the
whole boil together a quarter of an hour; strain it off, and it will be
a good sauce.


_Another._

Take the glaze that remains at the bottom of the pot after you have
stewed any thing à la braise, provided it be not tainted game; skim it,
and strain it through a sieve; then put in a bit of butter about the
size of a walnut, mixed with flour; thicken it over the fire, and add
the juice of a lemon, and a little salt and cayenne pepper.


_Green Sauce for Green Geese, or Ducklings._

Half a pint of the juice of sorrel, with a little grated nutmeg, some
bread crumb, and a little white wine; boil it a quarter of an hour, and
sweeten with sugar, adding scalded gooseberries and a piece of butter.


_Another._

Pound a handful of spinach and another of sorrel together in a mortar;
squeeze and put them into a saucepan; warm, but do not let it boil.


_Ham Sauce._

When your ham is almost done, let the meat be picked clean from the
bone, and mash it well; put it into a saucepan with three spoonfuls of
gravy; set it over a slow fire, stirring it all the while, otherwise it
will stick to the bottom. When it has been on for some time, add a small
bundle of sweet-herbs, pepper, and half a pint of beef gravy; cover it
up; stew it over a gentle fire, and when quite done strain off the
gravy.

This is very good for veal.


_Sauce for Hare or Venison._

In a little port wine and water melt some currant jelly, or send in the
jelly only; or simmer port wine and sugar for twenty or thirty minutes.


_Harvey's Sauce._

Three table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, two of essence of anchovies,
one tea-spoonful of soy, and one of cayenne pepper. Mix these together;
put them, with a clove of garlic, into a pint bottle, and fill it up
with white wine vinegar.


_Sauce for Hashes or Fish, and good with any thing and every thing._

Take two or more spoonfuls of good cullis, according to the quantity you
intend to make, a glass of white wine, a shalot, a small onion, a few
mushrooms, truffles, morels, and a bunch of sweet-herbs, with a little
grated lemon-peel, a slice of ham, and the yolk of an egg. Thicken it
with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and let it stew till the
ingredients are quite soft.


_Sauce for White Hashes or Chickens._

A pint of new milk, the yolk of two eggs, well beaten, two ounces of
butter, well mixed with flour; mix it all together in a saucepan, and,
when it boils, add two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup; it must be stirred
all the time, or it will not do. If used for cold veal or lamb, the meat
must be cut as thin as possible, the sauce made first to boil, and then
the meat put into it, till it is hot enough for table.


_Horseradish Sauce._

A tea-spoonful of mustard, one table-spoonful of vinegar, three of thick
cream, and a little salt; grate as much horseradish into it as will
make it as thick as onion sauce. A little shalot may be added.


_Italian Sauce._

Put into a stewpan two spoonfuls of sweet oil, a handful of mushrooms
cut small, a bunch of parsley, scallions, and half a laurel-leaf, two
cloves, and a clove of garlic; turn the whole a few times over the fire,
and shake in a little flour. Moisten it with a glass of white wine and
twice as much good cullis; let it boil half an hour; skim away the fat,
allowing it to cool a little for that purpose; set it on again, and
serve it; it will be found to eat well with any white meat.


_Ketchup._

Put a pint of the best white wine vinegar into a wide-mouthed quart
bottle; add twelve cloves of shalots, peeled and bruised; take a quarter
of a pint of the strongest red wine and boil it a little; wash and bone
about a dozen anchovies, let them dissolve in the wine, and, when cold,
put them into the vinegar bottle, stopping it close with a cork, and
shaking it well. Into the same quantity of wine put a spoonful of pepper
bruised, a few races of split ginger, half a spoonful of cloves bruised,
and a few blades of large mace, and boil them till the strength of the
spice is extracted. When the liquor is almost cold, cut in slices two
large nutmegs, and when quite cold put into it some lemon-peel. Put that
into the bottle, and scrape thin a large, sound horseradish root, and
put that also into the bottle; stop it down close; shake it well
together every day for a fortnight, and you may then use it.


_Lemon Sauce._

Pare a lemon, and cut it in slices; pick out the seeds and chop them
small: then boil the lemon and bruise it. Mix these in a little gravy;
and add it to some melted butter, with a little lemon-peel chopped fine.


_Liver Sauce for boiled Fowls._

Boil the liver just enough to spread; add a little essence of anchovy
and grated lemon-peel, the yolk of a hard egg, and the juice of a lemon:
mix it well together, and stir it into some butter.


_Lobster Sauce._ No. 1.

Pull the lobster to pieces with a fork; do not chop it; bruise the body
and the spawn with the back of a spoon; break the shell; boil it in a
little water to give it a colour; strain it off. Melt some butter in it
very smooth, with a little horseradish, and a little cayenne pepper;
mix the body of the lobster well with the butter; then add the meat, and
give it a boil, with a spoonful of ketchup and a spoonful of gravy.


_Lobster Sauce._ No. 2.

Put the red spawn of a hen lobster in a mortar; add half an ounce of
butter; pound it smooth, and run it through a hair sieve with the back
of a spoon. Cut the meat of the lobster into small pieces, and add as
much melted butter to the spawn as will suffice; stir it till thoroughly
mixed; then put to it the meat of the lobster, and warm it on the fire;
but do not let it boil.


_Lobster Sauce._ No. 3.

Take the spawn of one large lobster, and bruise it well in a mortar:
take a sufficient quantity of strong veal gravy, the yolk of an egg, and
a little cream, and thicken with flour and butter.


_The Marchioness's Sauce._

Put as much bread rasped very fine as you can take at two handfuls into
a stewpan, with a bit of butter of the size of a walnut, a
kitchen-spoonful of sweet oil, a shalot cut small, salt and large
pepper, with a sufficient quantity of lemon-juice to lighten the whole.
Stir it over the fire till it thickens. This sauce may be served with
all sorts of meat that require a sharp relishing sauce.


_Meat Jelly for Sauces._

Every sort of dish requires good sauce, and for every sauce it is
absolutely necessary to have a good meat jelly. The following may be
depended upon as being excellent: a shin of beef, about eight pounds,
rather more than less; a knuckle of veal, about nine pounds; a neck of
mutton, about nine pounds; two fowls; four calves' feet: carefully cut
off all fat whatever, and stew over a stove as slowly as possible, till
the juice is entirely extracted. This will produce about seven quarts of
jelly. No pepper, salt, or herbs of any kind. These should be added in
using the jelly, whether for soups, broths, or sauces; but the pure
jelly is the thing to have as the foundation for every species of
cookery.


_Another._

Three shanks, or two pounds, of mutton in two quarts of water; stew down
to a pint and a half, with a carrot, and an onion.


_A Mixed Sauce._

Take parsley, scallions, mushrooms, and half a clove of garlic, the
whole shred fine; turn it a few times over the fire with butter; shake
in a little flour, and moisten it with good broth: when the sauce is
consumed to half the original quantity, add two pickled gherkins cut
small, and the yolks of three eggs beaten up with some more broth; a
little salt and cayenne will complete the sauce.


_Mushroom Ketchup._ No. 1.

Take a bushel of the large flaps of mushrooms, gathered dry, and bruise
them with your hands. Put some of them into an earthen pan; throw some
salt over them; then put in more mushrooms, then more salt, till you
have done. Add half an ounce of beaten mace and cloves, and the same
quantity of allspice; and let them stand five or six days, stirring them
every day. Tie a paper over and bake for four hours in a slow oven;
strain out the liquor through a cloth, and let it stand to settle. Pour
it off clear from the sediment: to every gallon of liquor put a quart of
red wine; if not salt enough, add a little more salt, with a race of
ginger cut small, and half an ounce of cloves and mace, and boil till
reduced nearly one third. Strain it through a sieve into a pan; next day
pour it from the settlings, and bottle it for use.


_Mushroom Ketchup._ No. 2.

Mash your mushrooms with a great deal of salt; let them stand two days;
strain them, and boil the liquor once or twice, observing to scum it
well. Then put in black pepper and allspice, a good deal of each, and
boil them together. Bottle the liquor, and put five or six cloves into
each bottle.


_Mushroom Ketchup._ No. 3.

Pick the mushrooms clean, but by no means wash them; put them into an
earthen pipkin with salt, cover them close with a coarse paste, and put
them in the oven for seven hours or thereabout. Squeeze them a little,
and pour off the liquor, which must be put upon fresh mushrooms, and
bake these as long as the first. Then pour off the liquor, after
pressing, and boil it well with salt sufficient to keep. Boil it half
away till it appears clammy. When cold, bottle it up.


_Mushroom Ketchup._ No. 4.

Into a quart of red wine put some flaps of mushrooms, half a pound of
anchovies, some thyme, two onions sliced, parsley, cloves, and mace. Let
them stew gently on the fire; then strain off the liquor, a spoonful of
which, with a little gravy, butter, and lemon, will make excellent fish
sauce, and be always ready.


_Mushroom Sauce._

Mix a little flour with a good piece of butter; boil it up in some
cream, shaking the saucepan; then throw in some mushrooms with a little
salt and nutmeg: boil this up; or, if you like it better, put the
mushrooms in butter melted with a little veal gravy, some salt, and
grated nutmeg.


_Sauce for roasted Mutton._

Wash an anchovy clean; put to it a glass of red wine, some gravy, a
shalot cut small, and a little lemon-juice. Stew these together; strain
them, and mix the liquor with the gravy that runs from the mutton.


_Onion Sauce._

Let the onions be peeled; boil them in milk and water, and put a turnip
into the pot; change the water twice: pulp them through a colander, or
chop them as you please; then put them into a saucepan, with butter,
cream, a little flour, and some pepper and salt.


_Brown Onion Sauce._

Peel and slice the onions, to which put an equal quantity of cucumber or
celery, with an ounce of butter, and set them on a slow fire; turn the
onions till they are highly browned; stir in half an ounce of flour; add
a little broth, pepper, and salt; boil it up for a few minutes; add a
spoonful of claret or port, and some mushroom ketchup. You may sharpen
it with a little lemon-juice. Rub through a tamis.


_Oyster Sauce._ No. 1.

Take two score of oysters, put them, with their own liquor, a few
peppercorns, and a blade of mace, into a saucepan, and let them simmer a
little over the fire, just to plump them; then with a fork shake each in
the liquor so as to take off all the grit; strain the liquor, add to it
a little good gravy and two anchovies, and thicken it with flour and
butter, nearly as thick as custard.


_Oyster Sauce._ No. 2.

Wash the oysters from their liquor; strain it, and put that and the
oysters into a little boiled gravy and just scald them: add a piece of
butter mixed with flour, cream, and ketchup. Shake all up; let it boil,
but not much, lest the oysters grow hard and shrink; but be very careful
they are enough done, as nothing is more disagreeable than the oysters
tasting raw.


_Pepper-pot._

A good stock made with beef bones or mutton, one small carrot, one
onion, three turnips, two heads of celery, a little thyme and
sweet-herbs; season to your taste; boil these, and put them through a
tamis; then add a little flour and butter; make up some flour and water
in little balls, and boil them in the pepper-pot.


_Sauce for Pike, or any other fresh-water Fish._

Take half a pint of good beef broth, three table-spoonfuls of cream, one
onion sliced fine, a middling sized stick of horseradish scraped, seven
or eight peppercorns, three or four cloves, two anchovies; boil well in
a piece of butter as big as a walnut well rolled in flour.

Pike should be boiled with the scales on.


_Sauce Piquante._

Pound a table-spoonful of capers and one pound of minced parsley as fine
as possible, add the yolks of three hard eggs; rub them together with a
table-spoonful of mustard. Bone six anchovies, pound them, and rub them
through a hair sieve; mix with these two spoonfuls of oil, one of
vinegar, one of shalot, and a few grains of cayenne pepper. Rub all
together in a mortar till thoroughly incorporated; then stir them into
half a pound of good gravy, or melted butter, and pass the whole through
a sieve.


_Sauce Piquante, to serve hot._

Put into a stewpan a bit of butter, with two onions sliced, a carrot, a
parsnip, a little thyme, laurel, basil, two cloves, two shalots, a clove
of garlic, parsley, and scallions; turn the whole over the fire till it
is well coloured; then shake in some flour, and moisten it with some
broth, a spoonful of white wine vinegar, and a squeeze of a lemon, and
strain it through a sieve, adding a little cayenne and salt. It is good
with every thing.


_Another._

Simmer a gill of white wine with as much broth, and, when it is consumed
to half, put in a shalot, a little garlic, and some salad herbs shred
very fine; let it boil, and then add a bit of butter of the size of a
walnut, mixed with flour, salt, and whole pepper, thickening the whole
over the fire.


_Sauce Piquante, to serve cold._

Shred very fine all sorts of garden-herbs, thyme, sage, parsley,
chervil, half a clove of garlic, and two shalots; dilute the whole with
a small tea-spoonful of mustard, salad oil, a little vinegar, the
squeeze of a lemon; add a little salt and cayenne. You may add an
anchovy: this is excellent with cold partridge or game, or any hot or
cold veal.


_Poivrade Sauce._

Boil half a pint of the best vinegar, half a pint of water, two large
onions, half a handful of horseradish, and a little pounded white
pepper, some salt and shalot, all together a quarter of an hour. If you
would have it clear, strain and bottle it: if you chuse, add a little
gravy when you use it.


_Poor Man's Sauce._

A handful of parsley leaves picked from the stalks, shred fine, and a
little salt strewed over; shred six young green onions, put them to the
parsley, with three table-spoonfuls of oil, and five of vinegar, some
ground black pepper, and salt. Pickled French beans or gherkins, cut
fine, may be added, or a little grated horseradish.


_Quin's Fish Sauce._

A pint of old mushroom ketchup, a pint of old walnut pickle, six
anchovies finely pounded, six cloves of garlic, three pounded, three
not, and half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper.


_Ragout Sauce._

One ounce of salt; half an ounce of mustard; a quarter of an ounce of
allspice; black pepper ground, and lemon-peel grated, half an ounce
each; of ginger and nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce each; cayenne
pepper two drachms. Pound all these, and pass them through a sieve,
infused in a quart of vinegar or wine, and bottle them for use.

Spice in ragout is indispensable to give it a flavour, but not a
predominating one.


_Sauce de Ravigotte._

Pick some parsley, sage, mint, thyme, basil, and balm, from the stalks,
and cut them fine; slice two large onions very thin: put all these into
a mortar, beat them thoroughly, and add pepper and salt, some rocambole,
and two blades of mace cut fine. Beat these well, and mix them by
degrees with gravy till of the thickness of butter; put them into a
stewpan, and boil them up. Strain the gravy from the herbs; add to it a
glass of wine and a spoonful of oil; beat these together, and pour it
into a sauce-boat.


_Sauce Ravigotte à la Bourgeoise._

Tie some parsley, sage, mint, thyme, and basil, in a bunch; put them
into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil about a minute;
take them out, squeeze the water from them, chop them very fine, and add
a clove of garlic and two large onions minced very fine. Put the whole
into a stewpan, with half a pint of broth, some pepper, and salt; boil
it up, and add a spoonful of vinegar.


_Relishing Sauce._

Put a wine glass of good stock jelly, made into broth, into a stewpan,
half a spoonful of the best white wine vinegar, a little salt, a few
whole peppercorns, and a bit of butter, the size of a walnut, mixed up
with a little flour in balls, some tarragon, chervil, pimpernel, thyme,
and shalot, with garden cresses; boil these herbs in water, having cut
them very small; put them into the sauce, and thicken it to a thin
creamy consistency over the fire. This sauce is good with any thing,
fish, flesh, or fowl.


_Sauce à-la-Remoulade._ No. 1.

Take two large spoonfuls of capers cut fine, as much parsley, two
anchovies, washed and boned, two cloves of garlic, and a little shalot;
cut them separately, and then mix them together; put a little rich gravy
into a stewpan, with two spoonfuls of oil, one of mustard, and the juice
of a large lemon. Make it quite hot, and put in your other ingredients,
with salt, pepper, and the leaves of a few sweet-herbs, picked from
their stalks. Stir it well together, and let it be four minutes over a
brisk fire.


_Sauce à-la-Remoulade._ No. 2.

Put into a stewpan a shalot, parsley, scallions, a little bit of garlic,
two anchovies, some capers, the whole shred very fine. Dilute it with a
little mustard, oil, and vinegar, and two table-spoonfuls of good
cullis.


_Sauce à-la-Remoulade._ No. 3.--_For cold Chicken, or Lobster Salad._

Two yolks of eggs boiled hard must be bruised very fine, with a
tea-spoonful of cold water; add a tea-spoonful of mustard, and two
table-spoonfuls of salad oil. When these are well mixed, add a
tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, one clove of shalot, and a little
tarragon; these must be chopped very fine, and well mixed; then add
three table-spoonfuls of vinegar and one of cream. The chicken or
lobster should be cut in small thick pieces (not sliced) and placed,
with small quarters of lettuces and hard eggs quartered, alternately, so
as to fill the dish in a varied form. The sauce is then poured over it.


_Rice Sauce._

Steep a quarter of a pound of rice in a pint of milk, with onion,
pepper, &c. When the rice is boiled quite tender, take out the spice,
rub it through a sieve, and add to it a little milk or cream. This is a
very delicate white sauce.


_Richmond Sauce, for boiled Chicken._

Half a pint of cream, the liver of the chicken, a little parsley, an
anchovy, some caper liquor, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, a little
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and juice of lemon, with a piece of butter, about
the size of a walnut, to thicken it. Send it up hot, with the chicken.


_Sauce for any kind of roasted Meat._

While the mutton, beef, hare, or turkey, is roasting, put a plate under
it, with a little good broth, three spoonfuls of red wine, a slice of
onion, a little grated cheese, an anchovy, washed and minced, and a bit
of butter; let the meat drop into it. When it is taken up, put the sauce
into a pan that has been rubbed with onion; give it a boil up; strain it
through a sieve, and serve it up under your roast, or in a boat.


_Sauce Robert._

Melt an ounce of butter, and put to it half an ounce of onion, mixed
fine; turn it with a wooden spoon till it takes a light brown colour;
stir into it a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the same quantity
of port wine. Add half a pint of broth, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of
pepper, and the same of salt; give them a boil; add a tea-spoonful of
mustard, the juice of half a lemon, and one or two tea-spoonfuls of
vinegar or tarragon.


_Another._

Cut a few large onions and some fat bacon into square pieces; put these
together into a saucepan over a fire, and shake them well to prevent
their burning. When brown, put in some good veal gravy, with a little
pepper and salt; let them stew gently till the onions are tender; then
add a little salt, vinegar, and mustard, and serve up.


_Sauce for Salad._

The yolk of one egg, one tea-spoonful of mustard, one tea-spoonful of
tarragon vinegar, three table-spoonfuls of oil, one table-spoonful of
common vinegar, chives, according to taste.


_Shalot Sauce, for boiled Mutton._

Mince four shalots fine, put them into a stewpan, with about half a pint
of the liquor in which the mutton is boiled; put in a table-spoonful of
vinegar, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper, a little salt, a bit of
butter, of the size of a walnut, rolled in flour; shake them together,
and boil.


_Spanish Sauce._

Put a cullis (that is always the stock or meat jelly,) in good quantity
into a stewpan, with a glass of white wine, the same quantity of fresh
made broth, a bunch of parsley, and shalots, one clove of garlic, half a
laurel leaf, parsley, scallions, onions, any other root you please for
the sake of flavour, such as celery or carrots. Boil it two hours over a
slow fire, take the fat off, and strain it through a sieve; and then add
salt, large pepper, and the least sprinkle of sugar.

This is very good with beef, mutton, and many sorts of game, venison and
hare in particular; for which substitute a glass of red wine instead of
white.


_Sauce for Steaks._

A glass of small beer, two anchovies, a little thyme, parsley, an onion,
some savory, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; cut all these together, and, when
the steaks are ready, pour the fat out of the pan, and put in the small
beer, with the other ingredients and a piece of butter rolled in flour:
let it simmer, and strain it over the steaks.


_Sultana Sauce._

Put a pint of cullis into a stewpan with a glass of white wine, two
slices of peeled lemons, two cloves, a clove of garlic, half a
laurel-leaf, parsley, scallions, onions, and turnip. Boil it an hour and
a half over a slow fire, reducing it to a creamy consistency; strain it
very carefully through a sieve, and then add a little salt, the yolk of
an egg boiled hard and chopped, and a little boiled parsley shred fine.

This sauce is very good with poultry.


_Tomata Ketchup._

Take a quart of tomata pulp and juice, three ounces of salt, one ounce
of garlic pounded, half an ounce of powdered ginger, and a quarter of an
ounce of cloves; add two ounces of anchovies or a wine-glassful of the
essence, as sold in the shops. Boil all in a tin saucepan half an hour;
strain it through a fine hair sieve. To the strained liquor add a
quarter of a pint of vinegar, half a pint of white wine, half a quarter
of an ounce of mace, which is to be pounded, and a tea-spoonful of
cayenne pepper. Let the whole simmer together over a gentle fire twenty
minutes; then strain it through fine lawn or muslin. When cold bottle it
up, and be careful to keep it close corked. It is fit for use
immediately.

The best way to obtain the pulp and juice free from the skin and seeds
is to rub it through a hair sieve.


_Tomata Sauce._ No. 1.

Roast the tomatas before the fire till they are very tender; save all
the liquor that runs from them while roasting; then with a spoon gently
scoop out the pulp from the skins; avoid touching them with your
fingers: add to the pulp a small quantity of shred ginger, and a few
young onions cut very small. Salt it well, and mix the whole together
with vinegar, or the best common wine. Put it into pint bottles, as it
keeps best with only a bladder tied over.

This is to mix with all other sauces in the small cruet for fish.


_Tomata Sauce._ No. 2.

Take twelve or fifteen tomatas, ripe and red; cut them in half, and
squeeze out all the water and seeds; add capsicums, and two or three
table-spoonfuls of beef gravy; set them on a slow fire or stove, for an
hour, till melted; rub them through a tamis into a clean stewpan, with a
little white pepper and salt; then simmer for a few minutes. The French
cooks add a little tarragon vinegar, or a shalot.


_Tomata Sauce._ No. 3.

When the fruit is ripe, bake it tender, skin, and rub the pulp through a
sieve. To every pound of pulp add a quart of chili vinegar, one ounce of
garlic, one of shalots, both sliced, half an ounce of salt, a little
cayenne pepper, and the juice of three lemons. Boil all together for
twenty minutes.


_Savoury Jelly for a Turkey._

Spread some slices of veal and ham in the bottom of a stewpan, with a
carrot and turnip, and two or three onions. Stew upon a slow fire till
the liquor is of as deep a brown as you wish. Add pepper, mace, a very
little isinglass, and salt to your taste. Boil ten minutes; strain
through a French strainer; skim off all the fat; put in the whites of
three eggs, and pass all through a strainer till it is quite clear.


_Sauce for Turkey or Chicken._

Boil a spoonful of the best mace very tender, and also the liver of the
turkey, but not too much, which would make it hard; pound the mace with
a few drops of the liquor to a very fine pulp; then pound the liver, and
put about half of it to the mace, with pepper, salt, and the yolk of an
egg, boiled hard, and then dissolved; to this add by degrees the liquor
that drains from the turkey, or some other good gravy. Put these liquors
to the pulp, and boil them some time; then take half a pint of oysters
and boil them but a little, and lastly, put in white wine, and butter
wrapped in a little flour. Let it boil but a little, lest the wine make
the oysters hard; and just at last scald four spoonfuls of good cream,
and add, with a little lemon-juice, or pickled mushrooms will do better.


_Sauce for boiled Turkey or Fowl._

Take an anchovy, boil it in a quarter of a pint of water; put to it a
blade of mace and some peppercorns; strain it off; then put to it two
spoonfuls of cream, with butter and flour.


_Venison Sauce._

Take vinegar, water, and claret, of each a glassful, an onion stuck with
cloves, salt, anchovies, pepper and cloves, of each a spoonful; boil all
these together, and strain through a sieve.


_Sweet Venison Sauce._

Take a small stick of cinnamon, and boil it in half a pint of claret;
then add as much finely grated bread-crumbs as will make a thick pap;
and, after it has boiled thoroughly, sweeten it with the powder of the
best sugar.


_Walnut Ketchup._ No. 1.

Take walnuts when they are fit to pickle, beat them in a mortar, press
out the juice through a piece of cloth, let it stand one night, then
pour the liquor from the sediment, and to every pint put one pound of
anchovies; let them boil together till the anchovies are dissolved; then
skim, and to every pint of liquor add an eighth of an ounce of mace, the
same of cloves and Jamaica pepper, half a pint of common vinegar, half a
pound of shalots, with a few heads of garlic, and a little cayenne. Boil
all together till the shalots are tender, and when cold bottle up for
use.

A spoonful of this ketchup put into good melted butter makes an
excellent fish-sauce; it is equally fine in gravy for ducks or
beef-steaks.


_Walnut Ketchup._ No. 2.

Take half a bushel of green walnuts, before the shell is formed, and
grind them in a crab-mill, or beat them in a marble mortar. Squeeze out
the juice, through a coarse cloth, wringing the cloth well to get out
all the juice, and to every gallon put a quart of wine, a quarter of a
pound of anchovies, the same quantity of bay salt, one ounce of
allspice, half an ounce of cloves, two ounces of long pepper, half an
ounce of mace, a little ginger, and horseradish, cut in slices. Boil all
together till reduced to half the quantity; pour it into a pan, when
cold, and bottle it. Cork it tight, and it will be fit for use in three
months.

If you have any pickle left in the jar after the walnuts are used, put
to every gallon two heads of garlic, a quart of red wine, and of cloves,
mace, long, black, and Jamaica pepper, one ounce each; boil them all
together till reduced to half the quantity; pour the liquor into a pan;
bottle it the next day for use, and cork it tight.


_Walnut Ketchup._ No. 3.

Pound one hundred walnuts very fine, put them in a glazed pan with a
quart of vinegar; stir them daily for ten days; squeeze them very dry
through a coarse cloth. Boil the liquor, and skim it as long as any
thing will rise; then add spice, ginger, anchovies instead of salt, and
boil it up for use.


_Walnut Ketchup._ No. 4.

Take one hundred walnuts, picked in dry weather, and bruise them well in
a mortar. Squeeze out the juice; add a large handful of salt; boil and
skim it well; then put into the juice an equal quantity of white wine
vinegar, or the vinegar in which pickled walnuts have been steeped, a
little red wine, anchovies unwashed, four or five cloves of garlic, as
many blades of mace, two dozen cloves, and a little whole pepper. Boil
it six or seven minutes, and when cold bottle it. If higher spiced the
better.


_Walnut Ketchup._ No. 5.

Pound your walnuts; strew some salt upon them, and let them stand a day
or two; strain them; to every pint of juice put half a pound of
anchovies, and boil them in it till they are dissolved. Then strain the
liquor, and to every pint add two drachms of mace, the same quantity of
cloves, some black pepper, one ounce of dried shalots, and a little
horseradish.


_White Sauce._

Put some good veal or fowl cullis into a stewpan, with a piece of crumb
of bread, about the size of a tea-cup, a bunch of parsley, thyme,
scallions, a clove of garlic, a handful of butter, mushrooms, and a
glass of white wine: let the whole boil till half the quantity is
consumed. Strain it through a coarse sieve, keeping the vegetables
apart; then add to it the yolks of three eggs beaten up in three
table-spoonfuls of cream, and thicken it over the fire, taking care to
keep it continually stirred lest the eggs should curdle. You may either
add your vegetables or not. This sauce may be used with all sorts of
meat or fish that are done white.


_Another._

Take some cream, a very little shalot, and a little salt; when warmed
upon the fire add a piece of butter rolled in flour; stir it gently one
way, and make it the consistency of cream. This sauce is excellent for
celery, chickens, veal, &c.


_White Wine sweet Sauce._

Break a stick of cinnamon, and set it over the fire in a saucepan, with
enough water to cover it; boil it up two or three times; add a quarter
of a pint of wine and about two spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and break
in two bay-leaves; boil all these together; strain off the liquor
through a sieve; put it in a sauceboat or terrine, and serve up.




CONFECTIONARY.


_Almacks._

Take plums, or apricots, baking pears, and apples, of each a pound;
slice the pears and apples, and open the plums; put them in layers in an
earthen mug, and set it in a slow oven. When the fruit is soft, squeeze
it through a colander; add a pound of sugar; place it on the fire, and
let it simmer, till it will leave the pan clear. Then put it into an
earthen mould to cut out for use, or drop it on a plate, and let it
stand till it is so dry that paper will not stick to it, then put it by
for use. You must stir it all the time it is on the fire, or it will
burn.


_Almond Butter._

Put half a pound of blanched almonds, finely beaten, into a quart of
cream and a pint of milk mixed well together. Strain off the almonds,
and set the cream over the fire to boil. Take the yolks of twelve eggs
and three whites well beaten; let it remain over the fire; keep stirring
till it begins to curdle. Put it into a cloth strainer and tie it up,
letting it stand till the thin has drained off. When cold, break it with
a spoon, and sweeten with sifted sugar.


_Almond Cheesecakes._

Take a quarter of a pound of Jordan almonds and twelve or fourteen
apricot or peach kernels; blanch them all in cold water, and beat them
very fine with rose-water and a little sack. Add a quarter of a pound of
fine powder sugar, by degrees, and beat them very light: then put a
quarter of a pound of the best butter just melted, with two or three
spoonfuls of sweet thick cream; beat them well again. Then, add four
eggs, leaving out the whites, beaten as light as possible. When you have
just done beating, put a little grated nutmeg. Bake them in a nice
short crust; and, when they are just going into the oven, grate over
them a little fine sugar.


_Almond Cream._

Beat half a pound of fine almonds, blanched in cold water, very fine,
with orange-flower water. Take a quart of cream boiled, cooled, and
sweetened; put the almonds into it by degrees, and when they are well
mixed strain it through canvass, squeezing it very well. Then stir it
over the fire until it thickens; if you like it richly perfumed, add one
grain of ambergris, and if you wish to give it the ratafia flavour, beat
some apricot kernels with it.


_Unboiled Almond Cream._

Take half a pound of almonds; blanch them, and cut out all their spots:
then beat them very fine, in a clean stone or wooden mortar, with a
little rose-water, and mix them with one quart of sweet cream. Strain
them as long as you can get any out. Take as much fine sugar as will
sweeten it, a nutmeg cut into quarters, some large mace, three spoonfuls
of orange-flower water, as much rose-water, with musk or ambergris
dissolved in it; put all these things into a glass churn; shake them
continually up and down till the mass is as thick as butter; before it
is broken, pour it all into a clean dish; take out the nutmeg and the
mace; when it is settled smooth, scatter some comfits or scrape some
hard sugar upon it.


_Almond Paste, for Shapes, &c._

Blanch half a pound of almonds in cold water; let them lie twenty-four
hours in cold water, then beat them in a mortar, till they are very
fine, adding the whites of eggs as you beat them. Put them in a stewpan
over a stove fire, with half a pound of double-refined sugar, pounded
and sifted through a lawn sieve; stir it while over the fire, till it
becomes a little stiff; then take it out, and put it between two plates,
till it is cold. Put it in a pan, and keep it for use. It will keep a
great while in a cool place. When you use it, pound it a little in a
mortar, or mould it in your hands; then roll it out thin in whatever
shape you choose, or make it up into walnuts or other moulds; press it
down close that it may receive the impression of the nut, &c., and with
a pin take it out of the mould and turn it out upon copper sheets, and
so proceed till you have a sufficient quantity. The mould should be
lightly touched with oil. Bake them of a light brown; fill them with
sweetmeats, &c. and such as should be closed, as nuts, &c. cement
together with isinglass boiled down to a proper consistence.


_Almond Puffs._

Take one pound of fine sugar, and put water to it to make a wet candy:
boil it till pretty thick; then put in a pound of beaten almonds, and
mix them together, still keeping it stirred over a slow fire, but it
must not boil, till it is as dry as paste. Then beat it a little in a
mortar; put in the peel of a lemon grated, and a pound of sifted sugar;
rub them well together, and wet this with the froth of whites of eggs.


_Another way._

Blanch and beat fine two ounces of sweet almonds, with orange-flower
water, or brandy; beat the whites of three eggs to a very high froth,
and then strew in a little sifted sugar till it is as stiff as paste.
Lay it in cakes, and bake it on paper in a cool oven.


_Angelica, to candy._

Take the youngest shoots; scrape and boil them in water till tender, and
put them on a cloth to drain. Make a very strong syrup of sugar; put in
the angelica while the syrup is hot, but not boiling. Set it in a tin
before the fire, or in the sun, for three or four days, to dry.


_Apples, to do._

Scoop as many apples as you choose to do; dip them several times in
syrup, and fill them with preserved raspberries or apricots; then roll
them in paste, and when baked put on them either a white iceing, or with
the white of an egg rub them over; sift on sugar, and glaze them with a
hot salamander.


_Pippins, to candy._

Take fine large pippins; pare and core them whole into an earthen
platter: strew over them fine sugar; and sprinkle on the sugar a little
rose-water. Bake them in an oven as hot as for manchet, and stop it up
close. Let them remain there half an hour; then take them out of the
dish, and lay them on the bottom of a sieve; leave them three or four
days, till quite dry, when they will look clear as amber, and be finely
candied.


_Pippins, to dry._

Take two pounds of fine sugar and a pint of water; let it boil up and
skim it; put in sixteen quarters of Kentish pippins pared and cored, and
let them boil fast till they are very clear. Put in a pint of jelly of
pippins, and boil it till it jellies; then put in the juice of a lemon;
just let it boil up, and put them in bottles. You may put in the rind of
an orange, first boiled in water, then cut in long thin pieces, and put
it into the sugar at the same time with the pippins.


_Apples, to preserve green._

Take green apples the size of a walnut, codlings are the best, with the
stalks on; put them into spring water with vine leaves in a preserving
pan, and cover them close; set them on a slow fire. When they are soft,
take off the skins, and put them with vine leaves in the same water as
before, and when quite cold put them over the fire till they are quite
green. Then put them into a dish without liquor; sift loaf sugar over
them while they are hot; when dry, they make a good syrup.


_Golden Pippins, to preserve._

Into a pint of clear spring water put a pound of double-refined sugar,
and set it on the fire. Neatly pare and take out the stalks and eyes of
a pound of pippins; put them into the sugar and water; cover them close,
and boil them as fast as you can for half a quarter of an hour. Take
them off a little to cool; set them on again to boil as fast and as long
as they did before. Do this three or four times till they are very
clear; then cover them close.


_Crabs, to preserve._

Gently scald them two or three times in a thin syrup; when they have
lain a fortnight, the syrup must be made rich enough to keep, and the
crabs scalded in it.


_Siberian Crabs, to preserve (transparent.)_

Take out the core and blossom with a bodkin; make a syrup with half
their weight of sugar; put in the apples, and keep them under the syrup
with a spoon, and they will be done in ten minutes over a slow fire.
When cold, tie them down with brandy paper.


_Another way._

To each pound of fruit add an equal quantity of sugar, which clarify
with as little water as possible, and skim it thoroughly; then put in
the fruit, and boil it gently till it begins to break. Take out the
apples, boil the syrup again till it grows thick, and then pour it over
them. They are not to be pared; and half the stalk left on.


_Golden Pippins, to stew._

Cut the finest pippins, and pare them as thin as you can. As you do
them, throw them into cold water to preserve their colour. Make a
middling thick syrup, of about half a pound of sugar to a pint of
water, and when it boils up skim it, and throw in the pippins with a bit
of lemon-peel. Keep up a brisk fire; throw the syrup over the apples as
they boil, to make them look clear. When they are done, add lemon-juice
to your taste; and when you can run a straw through them they are done
enough. Put them, without the syrup, into a bowl; cover them close, and
boil the syrup till you think it sufficiently thick: then take it off,
and throw it hot upon the pippins, keeping them always under it.


_Apple Cheese._

Seven pounds of apples cored, one pound and three quarters of sugar, the
juice and peel of two lemons; boil these in a stewpan till quite a thick
jelly. Bake the apple till soft; break it as smooth as possible; put it
into pots, and tie down close.


_Conserve of Apples._

Take as many golden rennets as will fill the dish that is to go to
table; pick them of a size; pare them, and take out the cores at the
bottom, that they may appear whole at the top. With the cores and about
half a glass of water make a syrup; when it is half done, put in your
apples, and let them stew till they are done. Be careful not to break
them; place them in your dish; that your syrup may be fine, add the
white of an egg well beaten; skim it, and it will be clarified. Squeeze
into it the juice of a lemon, with the peel cut in small shreds. This
should boil a minute; then throw over the syrup, which should be quite a
jelly.


_Apple Demandon._

The whites of seven or eight very fresh eggs, put into a flat dish, with
a very little finely sifted sugar, and beaten to a very thick froth. It
will require to be beaten full half an hour before it becomes of a
sufficient substance. It is then to be put over the apple and custard,
and piled up to some height; after which place it in a very quick oven,
and let it remain till it becomes partially of a light brown colour.

It should be done immediately before it is sent up to table.


_Apple Fraise._

Pare six large apples, take out the cores, cut them in slices, and fry
them on both sides with butter; put them on a sieve to drain; mix half a
pint of milk and two eggs, with flour, to batter, not too stiff; put in
a little lemon-peel, shred very fine, and a little beaten cinnamon. Put
some butter into a frying-pan, and make it hot; put in half the batter,
and lay the apples on it; let it fry a little to set it; then put the
remaining batter over it; fry it on one side; then turn it, and fry the
other brown: put it into a dish; strew powder-sugar over it, and squeeze
on it the juice of a Seville orange.


_Apple Fritters._

Pare six large apples and cut out the cores; cut them in slices as thick
as a half-crown piece. Mix half a pint of cream and two eggs with flour
into a stiff batter, put in a glass of wine or brandy, a little
lemon-peel, shred very fine, two ounces of powder-sugar: mix it well up,
and then put in the apples. Have a pan of hog's lard boiling hot; put in
every slice singly as fast as you can, and fry them quick, of a fine
gold colour on both sides; then take them out, and put them on a sieve
to drain; lay them on a dish, and sprinkle them with sugar. For fritters
be careful that the fat in which you fry them is quite sweet and clean.


_Apple Jelly._ No. 1.

Pare and slice pippins, or sharp apples, into a stewpan, with just as
much water as will cover them; boil them as fast as possible till half
the liquid is wasted; then strain them through a jelly-bag, and to every
pint of juice put three quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil it again till
it becomes jelly; put lemon-juice and lemon-peel to the palate. Some
threads of lemon-peel should remain in the jelly.


_Apple Jelly._ No. 2.

Take about a half sieve of john apples, or golden pippins; pare them,
and put them in a clean bright copper pan; add as much river water as
will cover them; set them over a charcoal fire, turning them now and
then, till they are boiled tender. Put a hair-sieve over a pan, and
throw them on to drain; then put the apples in a large pan or mortar,
and beat them into pulp. Put them back into the copper pan, adding about
half the water that came from them; then set them on the fire, and stir
them till they boil two or three minutes. Strain them into a flannel
jelly-bag; it should run out quite slowly, and be thick like syrup; you
should allow it six or eight hours to run or drop. Then measure the
jelly into a bright copper pan, and to each pint add one pound of
treble-refined sugar; put it on a slow fire till the sugar is melted;
then let the fire be made up, that it may boil; keep skimming it
constantly. When you hold up the skimmer near the window, or in the
cool, and you perceive it hangs about half an inch, with a drop at the
end, then add the juice of half a lemon, if a small quantity. Take it
off the fire, and pour it into gallipots.

The apples that are supposed to have the most jelly in them in this
country are the john apple. The best time to make the jelly is the
autumn; the riper they get, the less jelly. If the flannel bag is quite
new, it should be washed in several clean warm waters, without soap. The
jelly, if well made, should appear like clear water, about the substance
of currant-jelly.


_Apple Jelly._ No. 3.

Take apples, of a light green, without any spot or redness, and rather
sour; cut them in quarters, taking out the cores, and put them into a
quart of water; let them boil to a pulp, and strain it through a
hair-sieve, or jelly-bag. To a pint of liquor take a pound of
double-refined sugar; wet your sugar, and boil it to a thick syrup, with
the white and shell of an egg: then strain your syrup, and put your
liquor to it. Let it boil again, and, as it boils, put in the juice of a
lemon and the peel, pared extremely thin, and cut as fine as threads;
when it jellies, which you may know by taking up some in your spoon, put
it in moulds; when cold, turn it out into your dish; it should be so
transparent as to let you see all the flowers of your china dish through
it, and quite white.


_Crab Jam or Jelly._

Pare and core the crabs; to fifteen pounds of crabs take ten pounds of
sugar, moistened with a little water; boil them well, skimming the top.
When boiled tender, and broke to the consistency of jam, pour it into
your pans, and let it stand twenty-four hours. It is better the second
year than the first. The crabs should be ripe.


_Pippin or Codling-Jelly._

Slice a pound of pippins or codlings into a pint of clear spring water;
let them boil till the water has extracted all the flavour of the fruit;
strain it out, and to a pint of this liquor take a pound of
double-refined sugar, boiled to sugar again; then put in your codling
liquor; boil it a little together as fast as you can. Put in your golden
pippins; boil them up fast for a little while; just before the last
boiling, squeeze in the juice of a lemon; boil it up quick once more,
taking care the apples do not lose their colour; cut them, and put them
in glasses with the jelly. It makes a very pretty middle or corner dish.


_Apples and Pears, to dry._

Take Kirton pippins or royal russets, golden pippins or nonpareils;
finely pare and quarter the russets, and pare and take out the core
also of the smaller apples. Take the clean tops of wicker baskets or
hampers, and put the apples on the wickers in a cool oven. Let them
remain in till the oven is quite cold: then they must be turned as you
find necessary, and the cool oven repeated till they are properly dry.
They must stand some time before they are baked, and kept carefully from
the damp air. The richer the pears the better; but they must not be
over-ripe.


_Apricots in Brandy._

The apricots must be gathered before they are quite ripe, and, as the
fruit is usually riper on one side than the other, you must prick the
unripe side with the point of a penknife, or a very large needle. Put
them into cold water, and give them a great deal of room in the
preserving-pan; and proceed in the same manner as directed for peaches.
If they are not well coloured, it is owing to an improper choice of the
fruit, being too ripe or too high coloured, provided the brandy be of
the right sort.


_Apricot Chips._

Cut apricots when ripe in small thin pieces; take double-refined sugar,
pounded very small and sifted through a fine sieve, and strew a little
at the bottom of a silver basin; then put in your chips, and more of
your sugar. Set them over a chaffing-dish of coals, shaking your basin,
lest the chips should stick to the bottom, till you put in your sugar.
When your sugar is all candied, lay them on glass plates; put them in a
stove, and turn them out.


_Apricot Burnt Cream._

Boil a pint of cream with some bitter almonds pounded, and strain it
off. When the cream is cold, add to it the yolks of four eggs, with half
a spoonful of flour, well mixed together; set it over the fire; keep
stirring it till it is thick. Add to it a little apricot jam; put it in
your dish; sift powdered sugar over it, and brown it with your
salamander.


_Apricots, to dry._

Pare and stone a pound of apricots, and put to them three quarters of a
pound of double-refined sugar, strewing some of the sugar over the
apricots as you pare them, that they may not lose colour. When they are
all pared put the remainder of the sugar on them; let them stand all
night, and in the morning boil them on a quick fire till they are clear.
Then let them stand till next day covered with a sheet of white paper.
Set them on a gentle fire till scalding hot; let them stand three days
in the syrup; lay them out on stone plates; put them into a stove, and
turn them every day till they are dry.


_Apricot Jam._

Take two pounds of apricot paste in pulp and a pint of strong codling
liquor; boil them very fast together till the liquor is almost wasted;
then put to it one pound and a half of fine sugar pounded; boil it very
fast till it jellies; put it into pots, and it will make clear cakes in
the winter.


_Apricot and Plum Jam._

Stone the fruit; set them over the fire with half a pint of water; when
scalded, rub them through a sieve, and to every pound of pulp put a
pound of sifted loaf-sugar. Set it over a brisk fire in a
preserving-pan; when it boils, skim it well, and throw in the kernels of
the apricots and half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched; boil it
together fast for a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time.


_Apricot Paste._

Take ripe apricots, pare, stone, and quarter them, and put them into a
skillet, setting them on embers, and stirring them till all the pieces
are dissolved. Then take three quarters of their weight in fine sugar,
and boil it to a candy; put in the apricots, and stir it a little on the
fire; then turn it out into glasses. Set it in a warm stove; when it is
dry on one side, turn the other. You may take apricots not fully ripe,
and coddle them, and that will do also.


_Another._

Pare and stone your apricots; to one pound of fruit put one pound of
fine sugar, and boil all together till they break. Then to five pounds
of paste put three pounds of codling jelly, and make a candy of three
pounds of fine sugar. Put it in all together; just scald it, and put it
in little pots to dry quickly. Turn it out to dry on plates or glasses.


_Apricots, to preserve._

Stone and pare four dozen of large apricots, and cover them with three
pounds of fine sugar finely beaten; put in some of the sugar as you pare
them. Let them stand at least six or seven hours; then boil them on a
slow fire till they are clear and tender. If any of them are clear
before the rest, take them out and put them in again. When the rest are
ready, let them stand closely covered with paper till next day. Then
make very strong codling jelly: to two pounds of jelly add two pounds of
sugar, which boil till they jelly; and while boiling make your apricots
scalding hot; put the jelly to the apricots, and boil them, but not too
fast. When the apricots rise in the jelly and jelly well, put them in
pots or glasses, and cover closely with brandy paper.


_Another way._

Cut in half, and break in pieces, ripe apricots; put them in a
preserving pan, simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a fine hair
sieve: no water to be used. Add three quarters of a pound of white
powdered sugar to a pound of fruit; put in the kernels; mix all
together, and boil for twenty minutes: well skim when it begins to boil.
Put it into pots; when cold, cover close with paper dipped in brandy,
and tie down with an outer cover of paper.


_Apricots, to preserve whole._

Gather the fruit before it is too ripe, and to one pound put three
quarters of a pound of fine sugar. Stone and pare the apricots as you
put them into the pan; lay sugar under and over them, and let them stand
till next day. Set them on a quick fire, and let them just boil; skim
well; cover them till cold, or till the following day; give them another
boil; put them in pots, and strew a little sugar over them while
coddling, to make them keep their colour.


_Apricots, to preserve in Jelly._

To a pound of apricots, before they are stoned and pared, weigh a pound
and a quarter of the best pounded sugar. Stone and pare the fruit, and,
as you pare, sprinkle some sugar under and over them. When the sugar is
pretty well melted, set them on the fire and boil them. Keep out some
sugar to strew on them in the boiling, which assists to clear them. Skim
very clear, and turn the fruit with a ladle or a feather. When clear and
tender, put them in glasses; add to the syrup a quarter of a pint of
strong pippin liquor, and nearly the weight of it in sugar; let it boil
awhile, and put it to the apricots. The fire should be brisk, as the
sooner any sweetmeat is done the clearer and better it will be. Let the
liquor run through a jelly-bag, that it may clear before you put the
syrup to it, or the syrup of the apricots to boil.


_French Bances._

Take half a pint of water, a bit of lemon-peel, a piece of butter the
size of a walnut, and a little orange-flower water; boil them gently
three or four minutes; take out the lemon-peel, and add to it by degrees
half a pint of flour: keep it boiling and stirring until it is a stiff
paste; then take it off the fire, and put in six eggs, well beaten,
leaving out three whites. Beat all very well for at least half an hour,
till it is a stiff light paste; then take two pounds of hog's-lard; put
it in a stewpan; give it a boil up, and, if the bances are of a right
lightness, fry them; keep stirring them all the time till they are of a
proper brown. A large dish will take six or seven minutes boiling. When
done, put them in a dish to drain; keep them by the fire; strew sugar
over them; and, when you are going to fry them, drop them through the
handle of a key.


_Barberries, to preserve._

Tie up the finest maiden barberries in bunches; to one pound of them put
two pounds and a quarter of sugar; boil the sugar to a thick syrup, and
when thick enough stir it till it is almost cold. Put in the barberries;
set them on the fire, and keep them as much under the syrup as you can,
shaking the pan frequently. Let them just simmer till the syrup is hot
through, but not boiling, which would wrinkle them. Take them out of the
syrup, and let them drain on a lawn sieve; put the syrup again into the
pot, and boil it till it is thick. When half cold put in the barberries,
and let them stand all night in the preserving-pan. If the syrup has
become too thin, take out the fruit and boil it again, letting it stand
all night: then put it into pots, and cover it with brandy paper.


_Biscuits._

Take one pound of loaf sugar, finely beaten and sifted; then take eight
eggs, whites and all; beat them in a wooden bowl for an hour; then take
a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, beat them very small with some
rose-water; put them into the bowl, and beat them for an hour longer;
then shake in five ounces of fine flour and a spoonful of coriander
seed, and one of caraways. Beat them half an hour; butter your plates,
and bake them.


_Another way._

Take one pound of flour; mix it stiff with water; then roll it very
thin; cut out the biscuits with cutters, and bake them.


_Dutch Biscuits._

Take the whites of six eggs in fine sugar, and the whites of four in
flour; then beat your eggs with the sugar and flour well with a whisk:
butter your pans, and only half fill them; strew them over with sugar
before you put them in the oven; grate lemon-peel over them.


_Ginger Biscuits._

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of loaf sugar,
rather more than one ounce of ginger powdered, all well mixed together.
Let it stand before the fire for half an hour; roll it into thin paste,
and cut out with a coffee-cup or wine-glass: bake it for a few minutes.


_Lemon Biscuits._

Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds in cold water; beat them with the
whites of six eggs, first whipped up to a froth; put in a little at a
time as they rise; the almonds must be very fine. Then add one pound of
double-refined sugar, beaten and sifted; put in, by degrees, four ounces
of fine flour, dried well and cold again; the yolks of six eggs well
beaten; the peels of two large lemons finely grated: beat these all
together about half an hour; put them in tin pans; sift on a little
sugar. The oven must be pretty quick, though you keep the door open
while you bake them.


_Another way._

Take three pounds of fine sugar, and wet it with a spoonful and a half
of gum-dragon, and put in the juice of lemons, but make the mass as
stiff as you can: mix it well, and beat it up with white of eggs. When
beaten very light, put in two grains of musk and a great deal of grated
lemon; drop the paste into round papers, and bake it.


_Ratafia Biscuits._

Blanch two ounces of bitter almonds in cold water, and beat them
extremely fine with orange-flower water and rose-water. Put in by
degrees the whites of five eggs, first beaten to a light froth. Beat it
extremely well; then mix it up with fine sifted sugar to a light paste,
and lay the biscuits on tin plates with wafer paper. Make the paste so
light that you may take it up with a spoon. Lay it in cakes, and bake
them in a rather brisk oven. If you make them with sweet almonds only,
they are almond puffs or cakes.


_Table Biscuits._

Flour, milk, and sugar, well mixed together. Shape the biscuits with the
top of a glass, and bake them on a tin.

_Blancmange._ No. 1.

To one pint of calves' foot or hartshorn jelly add four ounces of
almonds blanched and beaten very fine with rose and orange-flower water;
let half an ounce of the almonds be bitter, but apricot kernels are
better. Put the almonds and jelly, mixed by degrees, into a skillet,
with as much sugar as will sweeten it to your taste. Give it two or
three boils; then take it up and strain it into a bowl; add to it some
thick cream: give it a boil after the cream is in, and keep it stirred
while on the fire. When strained, put it into moulds.


_Blancmange._ No. 2.

Boil three ounces of isinglass in a quart of water till it is reduced to
a pint; strain it through a sieve, and let it stand till cold. Take off
what has settled at the bottom: then take a pint of cream, two ounces of
almonds, and a few bitter ones; sweeten to your taste. Boil all together
over the fire, and pour it into your moulds. A laurel leaf improves it
greatly.


_Blancmange._ No. 3.

Take an ounce of isinglass dissolved over the fire in a quarter of a
pint of water, strain it into a pint of new milk; boil it, and strain
again; sweeten to your taste. Add a spoonful of orange-flower water and
one of mountain. Stir it till it is nearly cold, and put it into moulds.
Beat a few bitter almonds in it.


_Blancmange._ No. 4.

Into two quarts of milk put an ounce of isinglass, an ounce of sugar,
half the peel of a lemon, and a bit of cinnamon. Keep stirring till it
boils.


_Dutch Blancmange._

Steep an ounce of the best isinglass two hours in a pint of boiling
water. Take a pint of white wine, the yolks of eight eggs well beaten,
the juice of four lemons and one Seville orange, and the peel of one
lemon; mix them together, and sweeten to your taste. Set it on a clear
fire; keep it stirred till it boils, and then strain it off into moulds.


_Bread._

Forty pounds of flour, a handful of salt, one quart of yest, three
quarts of water; stir the whole together in the kneading trough. Strew
over it a little flour, and let it stand covered for one hour. Knead it
and make it into loaves, and let them stand a quarter of an hour to
rise, before you put them in the oven.


_Diet Bread, which keeps moist._

Three quarters of a pound of lump sugar, dissolved in a quarter of a
pint of water, half a pound of the best flour, seven eggs, taking away
the whites of two; mix the liquid sugar, when it has boiled, with the
eggs: beat them up together in a basin with a whisk; then add by degrees
the flour, beating all together for about ten minutes; put it into a
quick oven. An hour bakes it.

Tin moulds are the best: the dimensions for this quantity are six inches
in length and four in depth.


_Potato Bread._

Boil a quantity of potatoes; drain them well, strew over them a small
quantity of salt, and let them remain in the vessel in which they were
boiled, closely covered, for an hour, which makes them mealy: then peel
and pound them as smooth as flour. Add eight pounds of potatoes to
twelve of wheaten flour; and make it into dough with yest, in the way
that bread is generally made. Let it stand three hours to rise.


_Rice Bread._

Boil a quarter of a pound of rice till it is quite soft; then put it on
the back of a sieve to drain. When cold, mix it with three quarters of a
pound of flour, a tea-cupful of milk, a proper quantity of yest, and
salt. Let it stand for three hours; then knead it very well, and roll it
up in about a handful of flour, so as to make the outside dry enough to
put into the oven. About an hour and a quarter will bake a loaf of this
size. When baked, it will produce one pound fourteen ounces of very good
bread; it is better when the loaves are not made larger than the
above-mentioned quantity will produce, but you may make any quantity by
allowing the same proportion for each loaf. This bread should not be cut
till it is two days old.


_Rye Bread._

Take one peck of wheaten flour, six pounds of rye flour, a little salt,
half a pint of good yest, and as much warm water as will make it into a
stiff dough. Let it stand three hours to rise before you put it into the
oven. A large loaf will take three hours to bake.


_Scotch short Bread._

Melt a pound of butter, pour it on two pounds of flour, half a
tea-cupful of yest, two ounces of caraway seeds, one ounce of Scotch
caraways; sweeten to your taste with lump sugar, then knead it well
together and roll it out, not too thin; cut in quarters and pinch it
round: prick it well with a fork.


_Buttered Loaves._

Take three quarts of new milk; put in as much runnet as will turn it;
whey the curds very clean; break them small with your hands; put in nine
yolks of eggs and one white, a handful of grated bread, half a handful
of flour, and a little salt. Mix these well together, working it well
with your hands; roll it into small loaves, and bake them in a quick
oven three quarters of an hour. Then take half a pound of butter, four
spoonfuls of clear water, half a nutmeg sliced very thin, and a little
sugar. Set it on a quick fire, stirring it quickly, and let it boil till
thick. When the loaves are baked, cut out the top and stir up the crumb
with a knife; then pour some of the butter into each of them, and cover
them up again. Strew a little sugar on them: before you set them in the
oven, beat the yolk of an egg and a little beer together, and with a
feather smear them over with it.


_Egg Loaf._

Soak crumb of bread in milk for three hours; strain it through a sieve;
then put in a little salt, some candied citron and lemon-peel cut small,
and sugar to your taste. Put to your paste the yolks only of six or
eight new-laid eggs, and beat it till the eggs are mixed. Whip the
whites of the eggs till they are frothed; add to the other ingredients,
and mix them well. Butter the pan or dish in which you bake your loaf.
When baked, turn it out into your dish, scrape some fine sugar upon it,
and glaze with a hot shovel.


_Buns._ No. 1.

Two pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter; rub the butter in
the flour like grated bread; set it to the fire to dry: put in one pound
of currants and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, with a few caraway
seeds, and two spoonfuls of good yest; make the dough into small buns;
set them to rise half an hour: you may put two or three eggs in if you
like.


_Buns._ No. 2.

One pound of fine flour, two pounds of currants, a few caraway seeds, a
quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a pint of new milk, and two
table-spoonfuls of yest; mix all well together in a stiff paste, and let
it stand half an hour to rise; then roll them out, and put them in your
tins; let them stand another half hour to rise before you bake them. The
above receipt answers equally well for a cake baked in a tin.


_Buns._ No. 3.

Take flour, butter, and sugar, of each a quarter of a pound, four eggs,
and a few caraway seeds. This quantity will make two dozen. Bake them on
tins.


_Bath Buns._

Take a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar finely powdered, the same
quantity of butter, and nearly double of flour dried before the fire, a
walnut-shell full of caraway-seeds just bruised, and one egg. Work all
these up together into a paste, the thickness of half-a-crown, and cut
it with a tea-cup, flour a tin; lay the cakes upon it; take the white of
an egg well beat and frothed; lay it on them with a feather, and then
grate upon them a little fine sugar.


_Another way._

Take one pound of fine flour, dry it well by the fire, sift it, and rub
into it a pound of butter, the yolks of four eggs, the whites of two,
both beaten light, three spoonfuls of cream, and the like quantity of
white wine and ale yest. Let this sponge stand by the fire to rise; then
beat it up extremely well and light with your hand; grate in a nutmeg;
continue beating till it is ready for the oven; then add a pound of
rough caraway seeds, keeping a few out to strew on the top of the cakes
before they are put into the oven.


_Plain Buns._

Take three pounds of flour, six ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar
sifted fine, six eggs, both yolks and whites. Beat your eggs till they
will not slip off the spoon; melt the butter in a pint of new milk, with
which mix half a pint of good yest; strain it into the flour, and throw
in half an ounce of caraway seeds. Work the whole up very light; set it
before the fire to rise; then make it up into buns of the size of a
penny roll, handling them as little as possible. Twenty minutes will
bake them sufficiently.


_Butter, to make without churning._

Tie up cream in a fine napkin, and then in a coarse cloth, as you would
a pudding: bury it two feet under ground; leave it there for twelve
hours, and when you take it up it will be converted into butter.


_Black Butter._

To one quart of black gooseberries put one pint of red currants, picked
into an earthen jar. Stop it very close, and set it in a pot of cold
water over the fire to boil till the juice comes out. Then strain it,
and to every pint of liquor put a pound of sugar; boil and skim it till
you think it done enough: put it in flat pots, and keep it in a dry
place. It will either turn out or cut in slices.


_Spanish Butter._

Take two gallons of new milk, boil it, and, when you take it off the
fire, put in a quart of cream, giving it a stir; then pour it through a
sieve into an earthen pan: lay some sticks over your pan, and cover it
with a cloth; if you let it stand thus two days, it will be the better.
Skim off the cream thick, and sweeten it to your taste; you may put in a
little orange-flower water, and whip it well up.


_Cake._

Five pounds of flour dried, six pounds of currants, a quart of boiled
cream, a pound and a half of butter, twenty eggs, the whites of six
only, a pint of ale yest, one ounce of cinnamon finely beaten, one ounce
of cloves and mace also well beaten, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a
little salt, half a pound of orange and citron. Put in the cream and
butter when it is just warm; mix all well together, and let it stand
before the fire to rise. Put it into your hoop, and leave it in the oven
an hour and a quarter. The oven should be as hot as for a manchet.


_An excellent Cake._

Beat half a pound of sifted sugar and the same quantity of fresh butter
to a cream, in a basin made warm; mixing half a pound of flour well
dried, six eggs, leaving out four whites, and one table-spoonful of
brandy. The butter is to be beaten in first, then the flour, next the
sugar, the eggs, and lastly, the brandy. Currants or caraways may be
added at pleasure. It must be beaten an hour, and put in the oven
immediately.


_A great Cake._

Take six quarts of fine flour dried in an oven, six pounds of currants,
five pounds of butter, two pounds and a half of sugar, one pound of
citron, three quarters of a pound of orange-peel, and any other
sweetmeat you think proper; a pound of almonds ground very small, a few
coriander seeds beat and sifted, half an ounce of mace, four nutmegs,
sixteen eggs, six of the whites, half a pint of sack, and half a pint of
ale yest.


_Light Cake._

One pound of the finest flour, one ounce of powdered sugar, five ounces
of butter, three table-spoonfuls of fresh yest.


_A nice Cake._

Take nine eggs; beat the yolks and whites separately; the weight of
eight eggs in sugar, and five in flour: whisk the eggs and the sugar
together for half an hour; then put in the flour, just before the oven
is ready to bake it. Both the sugar and the flour must be sifted and
dried.


_A Plain Cake._

Take a pound of flour, well dried and sifted; add to it one pound of
sugar also dried and sifted; take one pound of butter, and work it in
your hands till it is like cream; beat very light the yolks of ten eggs
and six whites. Mix all these by degrees, beating it very light, and a
little sack and brandy. It must not stand to rise. If you choose fruit,
add one pound of currants, washed, picked, and dried.


_A very rich Cake._

Two pounds and a half of fresh butter, twenty-four eggs, three-pounds of
flour, one pound and a half of sugar, one ounce of mixed spice, four
pounds of currants, half a jar of raisins, half of sweet almonds, a
quarter of a pound of citron, three quarters of orange and lemon, one
gill of brandy, and one nutmeg. First work the butter to a cream; then
beat the sugar well in; whisk the eggs half an hour; mix them with the
butter and sugar; put in the spice and flour; and, when the oven is
ready, mix in the brandy, fruit, and sweetmeats. It will take one hour
and a half beating. Let it bake three hours.


_Cake without butter._

Beat up eight eggs for half an hour. Have ready powdered and sifted one
pound of loaf sugar; shake it in, and beat it half an hour longer. Put
to it a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds beat fine with orange-flower
water; grate the rind of a lemon into the almonds, and squeeze in the
juice. Mix all together. Just before you put it in the oven, add a
quarter of a pound of dry flour; rub the hoop or tin with butter. An
hour and a half will bake it.


_Another._

Take ten eggs and the whites of five; whisk them well, and beat in one
pound of finely sifted sugar, and three quarters of a pound of flour:
the flour to be put in just before the cake is going to the oven.


_Almond Cake._

Take a pound of almonds; blanch them in cold water, and beat them as
small as possible in a stone mortar with a wooden pestle, putting in, as
you beat them, some orange-flower water. Then take twelve eggs, leaving
out half of the whites; beat them well; put them to your almonds, and
beat them together, above an hour, till it becomes of a good thickness.
As you beat it, sweeten it to your taste with double-refined sugar
powdered, and when the eggs are put in add the peel of two large lemons
finely rasped. When you beat the almonds in the mortar with
orange-water, put in by degrees about four spoonfuls of citron water or
ratafia of apricots, or, for want of these, brandy and sack mixed
together, two spoonfuls of each. The cake must be baked in a tin pan;
flour the pan before you put the cake into it. To try if it is done
enough, thrust a straw through it, and if the cake sticks to the straw
it is not baked enough; let it remain till the straw comes out clean.


_Another._

Take twelve eggs, leaving out half the whites; beat the yolks by
themselves till they look white; put to them by degrees one pound of
fine sifted sugar; put in, by a spoonful at a time, three quarters of a
pound of fine flour, well dried and sifted, with the whites of the eggs
well beaten, and continue this till all the flour and the whites are in.
Then beat very fine half a pound of fine almonds, with sack and brandy,
to prevent their oiling; stir them into the cake. Bake it three quarters
of an hour. Ratafia cake is made in the same manner, only keep out two
ounces of the almonds, and put in their stead two of apricot kernels; if
you have none, use bitter almonds.


_Almond Cakes._

Take one pound of almonds, blanch them; then take one pound of
double-refined sugar, beaten very small; crack the almonds, one by one,
upon the tops; put them into the sugar; mix them, and then beat them
well together till they will work like paste. Make them into round
cakes; take double-refined sugar, pounded and sifted, beat together with
the white of an egg, and, when the cakes are hardened in the oven, take
them out, and cover one side with sugar with a feather; then put them
into the oven again, and, when one side is hardened, take them out and
do the same on the other side. Set them in again to harden, and
afterwards lay them up for use.


_Clear Almond Cakes._

Take the small sort of almonds; steep them in cold water till they will
blanch, and as you blanch them throw them into water. Wipe them dry, and
beat them in a stone mortar, with a little rose-water, and as much
double-refined sugar, sifted, as will make them into clear paste. Roll
them into any size you please; then dry them in an oven after bread has
been drawn, so that they may be dry on both sides; when they are cold,
make a candy of sugar; wet it a little with rose-water; set it on the
fire; stir it till it boils, then take it off, and let it cool a little.
With a feather spread it over the cakes on one side; lay them upon
papers on a table; take the lid of a baking-pan, put some coals on it,
and set it over the cakes to raise the candy quickly. When they are
cold, turn the other side, and serve it in the same manner.


_Apple Cake._

Take one pound and a half of white sugar, two pounds of apples, pared
and cut thin, and the rind of a large lemon; put a pint of water to the
sugar, and boil it to a syrup; put the apples to it, and boil it quite
thick. Put it into a mould to cool, and send it cold to table, with a
custard, or cream poured round it.


_Another._

One pound of apples cut and cored, one pound of sugar put to a quarter
of a pint of water, so as to clarify the sugar, with the juice and peel
of a lemon, and a little Seville orange. Boil it till it is quite stiff;
put it in a mould; when cold it will turn out. You may put it into a
little warm water to keep it from breaking when taken out.


_Apricot Clear Cakes._

Make a strong apple jelly, strain it, and put apricots into it to boil.
Slit the apricots well, cover them with sugar, and boil them clear.
Strain them, and put them in the candy when it is almost boiled up; and
then put in your jelly, and scald it.


_Biscuit Cake._

Take eggs according to the size of the cake, weigh them, shells and all;
then take an equal weight of sugar, sifted very fine, and half the
weight of fine flour, well dried and sifted. Beat the whites of the eggs
to snow; then put the yolks in another pan; beat them light, and add the
sugar to them by degrees. Beat them until very light; then put the snow,
continuing to beat; and at last add by degrees the flour. Season with
lemon-peel grated, or any peel you like; bake it in a slow oven, but hot
enough to make it rise.


_Bread Cake._

Take two pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, one
spoonful of good yest, half a pound of currants, half a pound of Lisbon
sugar, some grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Melt the butter and sugar in
a sufficient quantity of new milk to make it of a proper stiffness. Set
it to rise for two hours and a half before the fire, and bake it in an
earthen pan or tin in a quick oven, of a light brown.

Caraway seeds may be added--two ounces to the above quantity.


_Breakfast Cakes._

To a pound of fine flour take two ounces of fresh butter, which rub very
well in with a little salt. Beat an egg smooth, and mix a spoonful of
light yest with a little warm milk. Mix as much in the flour as will
make a batter proper for fritters; then beat it with your hand till it
leaves the bottom of the bowl in which it is made. Cover it up for three
or four hours; then add as much flour as will form a paste proper for
rolling up; make your cakes half an hour before you put them into the
oven; prick them in the middle with a skewer, and bake them in a quick
oven a quarter of an hour.


_Excellent Breakfast Cakes._

Water the yest well that it may not be bitter; change the water very
often; put a very little sugar and water to it just as you are going to
use it; this is done to lighten and set it fermenting. As soon as you
perceive it to be light, mix up with it new milk warmed, as if for other
bread; put no water to it; about one pound or more of butter to about
sixteen or eighteen cakes, and a white of two of egg, beat very light;
mix all these together as light as you can; then add flour to it, and
beat it at least a quarter of an hour, until it is a tough light dough.
Put it to the fire and keep it warm, and warm the tins on which the
cakes are to be baked. When the dough has risen, and is light, beat it
down, and put it to the fire again to rise, and repeat this a second
time; it will add much to the lightness of the cakes. Make them of the
size of a saucer, or thereabouts, and not too thick, and bake them in a
slow oven. The dough, if made a little stiffer, will be very good for
rolls; but they must be baked in a quicker oven.


_Bath Breakfast Cakes._

A pint of thin cream, two eggs, three spoonfuls of yest, and a little
salt. Mix all well together with half a pound of flour. Let it stand to
rise before you put it in the oven. The cakes must be baked on tins.


_Butter Cake._

Take four pounds of flour, one pound of currants, three pounds of
butter, fourteen eggs, leaving out the whites, half an ounce of mace,
one pound of sugar, half a pint of sack, a pint of ale yest, a quart of
milk boiled. Take it off, and let it cool. Rub the butter well in the
floor; put in the sugar and spice, with the rest of the ingredients; wet
it with a ladle, and beat it well together. Do not put the currants till
the cake is ready to go into the oven. Butter the dish, and heat the
oven as hot as for wheaten bread. You must not wet it till the oven is
ready.


_Caraway Cake._ No. 1.

Melt two pounds of fresh butter in tin or silver; let it stand
twenty-four hours; then rub into it four pounds of fine flour, dried.
Mix in eight eggs, and whip the whites to a froth, a pint of the best
yest, and a pint of sack, or any fine strong sweet wine. Put in two
pounds of caraway seeds. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly; put the
paste into a buttered pan, and bake for two hours and a half. You may
mix with it half an ounce of cloves and cinnamon.


_Caraway Cake._ No. 2.

Take a quart of flour, a quarter of a pint of good ale yest, three
quarters of a pound of fresh butter, one quarter of a pound of almonds,
three quarters of a pound of caraway comfits, a handful of sugar, four
eggs, leaving out two of the whites, new milk, boiled and set to cool,
citron, orange, and lemon-peel, at your discretion, and two spoonfuls of
sack. First rub your flour and yest together, then rub in the butter,
and make it into a stiff batter with the milk, eggs, and sack; and, when
you are ready to put it into the oven, add the other ingredients. Butter
your hoop and the paper that lies under. This cake will require about
three quarters of an hour baking; if you make it larger, you must allow
more time.


_Caraway Cake._ No. 3.

Take four quarts of flour, well dried, and rub into it a pound and a
quarter of butter. Take a pound of almonds, ground with rose-water,
sugar, and cream, half an ounce of mace, and a little cinnamon, beaten
fine, half a pound of citron, six ounces of orange-peel, some dried
apricots, twelve eggs, four of the whites only, half a pound of sugar, a
pint of ale yest, a little sack, and a quart of thick cream, well
boiled. When your cream is nearly cold, mix all these ingredients well
together with the flour; set the paste before the fire to rise; put in
three pounds of double-sugared caraways, and let it stand in the hoop an
hour and a quarter before it is put into the oven.


_Small Caraway Cakes._

Take one quart of fine flour, fourteen ounces of butter, five or six
spoonfuls of ale yest, three yolks of eggs, and one white; mix all these
together, with so much cream as will make it into a paste; lay it before
the fire for half an hour; add to it a handful of sugar, and half a
pound of caraway comfits; and when you have worked them into long cakes,
wash them over with rose-water and sugar, and pick up the top pretty
thick with the point of a knife. Your oven must not be hotter than for
manchet.


_Cocoa-nut Cakes._

Grate the cocoa-nut on a fine bread grater; boil an equal quantity of
loaf-sugar, melted with six table-spoonfuls of rose-water; take off all
the scum; throw in the grated cocoa-nut, and let it heat thoroughly in
the syrup, and keep constantly stirring, to prevent its burning to the
bottom of the pan. Have ready beaten the yolks of eight eggs, with two
table-spoonfuls of rose-water; throw in the cocoa-nut by degrees, and
keep beating it with a wooden slice one hour; then fill your pans, and
send them to the oven immediately, or they will be heavy.


_Currant clear Cakes._

Take the currants before they are very ripe, and put them into water,
scarcely enough to cover them; when they have boiled a little while,
strain them through a woollen bag; put a pound and a quarter of fine
sugar, boiled to a candy; then put a pint of the jelly, and make it
scalding hot: put the whole into pots to dry, and, when jellied, turn
them on glasses.


_Egg Cake._

Beat eight eggs, leaving out half the whites, for half an hour; half a
pound of lump-sugar, pounded and sifted, to be put in during that time;
then, by degrees, mix in half a pound of flour. Bake as soon after as
possible. Butter the tin.


_Enamelled Cake._

Beat one pound of almonds, with three quarters of a pound of fine sugar,
to a paste; then put a little musk, and roll it out thin. Cut it in what
shape you please, and let it dry. Then beat up isinglass with white of
eggs, and cover it on both sides.


_Epsom Cake._

Half a pound of butter beat to a cream, half a pound of sugar, four
eggs, whites and yolks beat separately, half a quartern of French roll
dough, two ounces of caraway seeds, and one tea-spoonful of grated
ginger: if for a plum-cake, a quarter of a pound of currants.


_Ginger Cakes._

To a pound of sugar put half an ounce of ginger, the rind of a lemon,
and four large spoonfuls of water. Stir it well together, and boil it
till it is a stiff candy; then drop it in small cakes on a wet table.


_Ginger or Hunting Cakes._ No. 1.

Take three pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pound of butter,
two ounces of ginger, pounded and sifted fine, and a nutmeg grated. Rub
these ingredients very fine in the flour, and wet it with a pint of
cream, just warm, sufficiently to roll out into thin cakes. Bake them in
a slack oven.


_Ginger or Hunting Cakes._ No. 2.

Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of flour; add a quarter of a
pound of powder-sugar, one ounce of ginger, beat and sifted, the yolks
of three eggs, and one gill of cream. A slow fire does them best.


_Ginger or Hunting Cakes._ No. 3.

One ounce of butter, one ounce of sugar, twelve grains of ginger, a
quarter of a pound of flour, and treacle sufficient to make it into a
paste; roll it out thin, and bake it.


_Gooseberry clear Cakes._

Take the gooseberries very green; just cover them with water, and, when
they are boiled and mashed, strain them through a sieve or woollen bag,
and squeeze it well. Then boil up a candy of a pound and a quarter of
fine sugar to a pint of the jelly; put it into pots to dry in a stove,
and, when they jelly, turn them out on glasses.


_Jersey Cake._

To a pound of flour take three quarters of a pound of fresh butter
beaten to a cream, three quarters of a pound of lump sugar finely
pounded, nine eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, nutmeg to your
taste. Add a glass of brandy.


_Jersey Merveilles._

One pound of flour, two ounces of butter, the same of sugar, a spoonful
of brandy, and five eggs. When well mixed, roll out and make into fancy
shapes, and boil in hot lard. The Jersey shape is a true-lover's knot.


_London Wigs._

Take a quarter of a peck of flour; put to it half a pound of sugar, and
as much caraways, smooth or rough, as you like; mix these, and set them
to the fire to dry. Then make a pound and half of butter hot over a
gentle fire; stir it often, and add to it nearly a quart of milk or
cream; when the butter is melted in the cream, pour it into the middle
of the flour, and to it add a couple of wine-glasses of good white wine,
and a full pint and half of very good ale yest; let it stand before the
fire to rise, before you lay your cakes on the tin plates to bake.


_Onion Cake._

Slice onions thin; set them in butter till they are soft, and, when they
are cold, put into a pan to a quart basin of these stewed onions three
eggs, three spoonfuls of fine dried bread crumbs, salt, and three
spoonfuls of cream. Put common pie-crust in a tin; turn it up all round,
like a cheesecake, and spread the onions over the cake; beat up an egg,
and with a brush spread it in, and bake it of a fine yellow.


_Orange Cakes._

Put the Seville oranges you intend to use into water for two days. Pare
them very thick, and boil the rind tender. Mince it fine; squeeze in the
juice; take out all the meat from the strings and put into it. Then take
one-fourth more than its weight in double-refined sugar; wet it with
water, and boil it almost to sugar again. Cool it a little; put in the
orange, and let it scald till it looks clear and sinks in the syrup, but
do not let it boil. Put it into deep glass plates, and stove them till
they are candied on the tops. Turn them out, and shape them as you
please with a knife. Continue to turn them till they are dry; keep them
so, and between papers.

Lemon cakes are made in the same way, only with half the juice.


_Another way._

Take three large oranges; pare and rub them with salt; boil them tender
and cut them in halves; take out the seeds; then beat your oranges, and
rub them through a hair sieve till you have a pound; add one pound and a
quarter of double-refined sugar, boiled till it comes to the consistency
of sugar, and put in a pint of strong juice of pippins and juice of
lemon; keep stirring it on the fire till the sugar is completely melted.


_Orange Clove Cake._

Make a very strong jelly of apples, and to every pint of jelly put in
the peel of an orange. Set it on a quick fire, and boil it well; then
run it through a jelly-bag and measure it. To every pint take a pound of
fine sugar; set it on the fire, make it scalding hot, and strain it from
the scum. Take the orange-peel, boiled very tender, shred it very small,
and put it into it; give it another scald, and serve it out.

Lemon clove cake may be done the same way, but you must scald the peel
before the sugar is put in.


_Orange-flower Cakes._

Dip sugar in water, and let it boil over a quick fire till it is almost
dry sugar again. To half a pound of sugar, when it is perfectly clear,
add seven spoonfuls of water; then put in the orange-flowers: just give
the mixture a boil up; drop it on china or silver plates, and set them
in the sun till the cakes are dry enough to be taken off.


_Plum Cake._ No. 1.

Take eight pounds and three quarters of fine flour well dried and
sifted, one ounce of beaten mace, one pound and a half of sugar. Mix
them together, and take one quart of cream and six pounds of butter, put
together, and set them over the fire till the butter is melted. Then
take thirty-three eggs, one quart of yest, and twelve spoonfuls of sack;
put it into the flour, stir it well together, and, when well mixed, set
it before the fire to rise for an hour. Then take ten pounds of currants
washed and dried, and set them to dry before the fire, one pound of
citron minced, one pound of orange and lemon-peel together, sliced. When
your oven is ready, stir your cake thoroughly; put in your sweetmeats
and currants; mix them well in, and put into tin hoops. The quantity
here given will make two large cakes, which will take two hours' baking.


_Plum Cake._ No. 2.

One pound of fine flour well dried and sifted, three quarters of a pound
of fine sugar, also well dried and sifted. Work one pound to a cream
with a noggin of brandy; then add to it by degrees your sugar,
continuing to beat it very light. Beat the yolks of ten eggs extremely
light; then put them into the butter and sugar, a spoonful at a time;
beat the whites very light, and when you add the flour, which should be
by degrees, put in the whites a spoonful at a time; add a grated nutmeg
and a little beaten mace, and a good pound of currants, washed, dried,
and picked, with a little of the flour rubbed about them. Work them into
the cake. Cut in thin slices a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds,
and two ounces of citron and candied orange-peel. Between every layer of
cake, as you put it into the hoop, put in the sweetmeats, and bake it
two hours.


_Plum Cake._ No. 3.

Rub one pound of butter into two pounds of flour; take one pound of
sugar, one pound of currants, and mix them with four eggs; make them
into little round cakes, and bake them on tins. Half this quantity is
sufficient to make at a time.


_Clear Plum Cake._

Make apple jelly rather strong, and strain it through a woollen bag. Put
as many white pear plums as will give a flavour to the jelly; let it
boil; strain it again through the bag, and boil up as many pounds of
fine sugar for a candy as you had pints of jelly; and when your sugar is
boiled very high, add your jelly; just scald it over the fire; put it in
little pots, and let it stand with a constant fire.


_Portugal Cakes._

Put one pound of fine sugar, well beaten and sifted, one pound of fresh
butter, five eggs, and a little beaten mace, into a flat pan: beat it up
with your hand until it is very light; then put in by degrees one pound
of fine flour well dried and sifted, half a pound of currants picked,
washed, and well dried; beat them together till very light; bake them in
heart pans in a slack oven.


_Potato Cakes._

Roast or bake mealy potatoes, as they are drier and lighter when done
that way than boiled; peel them, and beat them in a mortar with a little
cream or melted butter; add some yolks of eggs, a little sack, sugar, a
little beaten mace, and nutmeg: work it into a light paste, then make it
into cakes of what shape you please with moulds. Fry them brown in the
best fresh butter; serve them with sack and sugar.


_Pound Cake._

Take a pound of flour and a pound of butter; beat to a cream eight eggs,
leaving out the whites of four, and beat them up with the butter. Put
the flour in by degrees, one pound of sugar, a few caraway seeds, and
currants, if you like; half a pound will do.


_Another._

Take half a pound of butter, and half a pound of powdered lump-sugar;
beat them till they are like a cream. Then take three eggs, leaving out
the whites of two; beat them very well with a little brandy; then put
the eggs to the butter and sugar; beat it again till it is come to a
cream. Shake over it half a pound of dried flour; beat it well with your
hand; add half a nutmeg, half an ounce of caraway seeds, and what
sweetmeat you please. Butter the mould well.


_Pound Davy._

Beat up well ten eggs and half a pound of sugar with a little
rose-water; mix in half a pound of flour, and bake it in a pan.


_Clear Quince Cakes._

Take the apple quince, pare and core it; take as many apples as quinces;
just cover them with water, and boil till they are broken. Strain them
through a sieve or woollen bag, and boil up to a candy as many pounds of
sugar as you have of jelly, which put in your jelly; just let it scald
over the fire, and put it into paste in a stove. The paste is made thus:
Scald quinces in water till they are tender; then pare and scrape them
fine with a knife and put them into apple jelly; let it stand till you
think the paste sufficiently thickened, then boil up to a candy as many
pounds of sugar as you have of paste.


_Ratafia Cakes._

Bitter and sweet almonds, of each a quarter of a pound, blanched and
well dried with a napkin, finely pounded with the white of an egg; three
quarters of a pound of finely pounded sugar mixed with the almonds. Have
the whites of three eggs beat well, and mix up with the sugar and
almonds; put the mixture with a tea-spoon on white paper, and bake it in
a slow heat; when the cakes are cold, they come off easily from the
paper. When almonds are pounded, they are generally sprinkled with a
little water, otherwise they become oily. Instead of water take to the
above the white of an egg or a little more; to the whole of the above
quantity the whites of four eggs are used.


_Rice Cake._

Ground rice, flour and loaf-sugar, of each six ounces, eight eggs,
leaving out five of the whites, the peel of a lemon grated: beat all
together half an hour, and bake it three quarters of an hour in a quick
oven.


_Another._

Take one pound of sifted rice flour, one pound of fine sugar finely
beaten and sifted, and sixteen eggs, leaving out half the whites; beat
them a quarter of an hour at least, separately; then add the sugar, and
beat it with the eggs extremely well and light. When they are as light
as possible, add by degrees the rice-flour; beat them all together for
an hour as light as you can. Put in a little orange-flower water, or
brandy, and candied peel, if you like; the oven must not be too hot.


_Rock Cakes._

One pound of flour, half a pound of clarified butter, half a pound of
currants, half a pound of sugar; mix and pinch into small cakes.


_Royal Cakes._

Take three pounds of very fine flour, one pound and a half of butter,
and as much currants, seven yolks and three whites of eggs, a nutmeg
grated, a little rose-water, one pound and a half of sugar finely
beaten; knead it well and light, and bake on tins.


_Savoy or Sponge Cake._

Take twelve new-laid eggs, and their weight in double refined sugar;
pound it fine, and sift it through a lawn sieve; beat the yolks very
light, and add the sugar to them by degrees; beat the whole well
together till it is extremely light. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a
strong froth; then mix all together by adding the yolks and the sugar to
the whites. Have ready the weight of seven eggs in fine flour very well
dried and sifted; stir it in by degrees, and grate in the rind of a
lemon. Butter a mould well, and bake in a quick oven. About half an hour
or forty minutes will do it.


_Another._

Take one pound of Jordan and two ounces of bitter almonds; blanch them
in cold water, and beat them very fine in a mortar, adding orange-flower
and rose-water as you beat them to prevent their oiling. Then beat
eighteen eggs, the whites separately to a froth, and the yolks extremely
well, with a little brandy and sack. Put the almonds when pounded into a
dry, clean, wooden bowl, and beat them with your hand extremely light,
with one pound of fine dried and sifted sugar; put the sugar in by
degrees, and beat it very light, also the peels of two large lemons
finely grated. Put in by degrees the whites of the eggs as they rise to
a froth, and in the same manner the yolks, continuing to beat it for an
hour, or until it is as light as possible. An hour will bake it; it must
be a quick oven; you must continue to beat the cake until the oven is
ready for it.


_Seed Cake._ No. 1.

Heat a wooden bowl, and work in three pounds of butter with your hands,
till it is as thin as cream; then work in by degrees two pounds of fine
sugar sifted, and eighteen eggs well beaten, leaving out four of the
whites; put the eggs in by degrees. Take three pounds of the finest
flour, well dried and sifted, mixed with one ounce and a half of caraway
seeds, one nutmeg, and a little mace; put them in the flour as you did
the sugar, and beat it well up with your hands; put it in your hoop; and
it will take two hours' baking. You may add sweetmeats if you like. The
dough must be made by the fire, and kept constantly worked with the
hands to mix it well together. If you have sweetmeats, put half a pound
of citron, a quarter of a pound of lemon-peel, and put the dough lightly
into the hoop, just before you send it to the oven, without smoothing it
at top, for that makes it heavy.


_Seed Cake._ No. 2.

Take a pound and a half of butter; beat it to a cream with your hand or
a flat stick; beat twelve eggs, the yolks in one pan and the whites in
another, as light as possible, and then beat them together, adding by
degrees one pound and a half of well dried and sifted loaf-sugar, and a
little sack and brandy. When the oven is nearly ready, mix all together,
with one pound and a half of well dried and sifted flour, half a pound
of sliced almonds, and some caraway seeds: beat it well with your hand
before you put it into the hoop.


_Seed Cake._ No. 3, _called Borrow Brack._

Melt one pound and a half of butter in a quart of milk made warm. Mix
fourteen eggs in half a pint of yest. Take half a peck of flour, and one
pound of sugar, both dried and sifted, four ounces of caraway seeds, and
two ounces of beaten ginger. Mix all well together. First put the eggs
and the yest to the flour, then add the butter and the milk. Make it
into a paste of the substance of that for French bread; if not flour
enough add what is sufficient; and if too much, put some warm new milk.
Let it stand for above half an hour at the fire, before you make it up
into what form you please.


_Shrewsbury Cakes._

Take three pounds and a half of fresh butter, work the whey and any salt
that it may contain well out of it. Take four pounds of fine flour well
dried and sifted, one ounce of powdered cinnamon, five eggs well beaten,
and two pounds of loaf-sugar well dried and sifted. Put them all into
the flour, and work them well together into a paste. Make it into a
roll; cut off pieces for cakes and work them well with your hands. This
quantity will make above six dozen of the size of those sold at
Shrewsbury. They require great care in baking; a short time is
sufficient, and the oven must not be very hot.


_Sponge Cake._

Take seven eggs, leaving out three whites; beat them well with a whisk;
then take three quarters of a pound of lump-sugar beat fine: put to it a
quarter of a pint of boiling water, and pour it to the eggs; then beat
it half an hour or more; when you are just going to put it in the oven,
add half a pint of flour well dried. You must not beat it after the
flour is in. Put a paper in the tin. A quick oven will bake this
quantity in an hour. It must not be beaten with a spoon, as it will make
it heavy.


_Another._

Take twelve eggs, leaving out half the whites; beat them to froth; shake
in one pound of lump-sugar, sifted through a fine sieve, and three
quarters of a pound of flour well dried; put in the peel of two lemons
grated and the juice of one; beat all well in with a fork.


_Sugar Cakes._

Take half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, two ounces of flour,
two eggs, but the white of one only, a little beaten mace, and a little
brandy. Mix all together into a paste with your hands; make it into
little cakes, and bake them on tins. You may put in six ounces of
currants, if you like.


_Little Sugar Cakes._

Take double-refined sugar and sift it very fine; beat the white of an
egg to a froth; take gum-dragon that has been steeped in juice of lemon
or orange-flower water, and some ambergris finely beaten with the sugar.
Mix all these together in a mortar, and beat it till it is very white;
then roll it into small knobs, or make it into small loaves. Lay them on
paper well sugared, and set them into a very gentle oven.


_Sweet Cakes._

Take half a pound of butter, and beat it with a spoon till it is quite
soft; add two eggs, well beaten, half a pound of currants, half a pound
of powdered sugar, and a pound of flour, mixed by degrees with the
butter. Drop it on, and bake them. Blanched almonds, powdered to paste,
instead of currants, are excellent.


_Tea Cakes._

Take loaf sugar, finely powdered, and butter, of each a quarter of a
pound, about half a pound of flour, dried before the fire, a
walnut-shellful of caraway seeds, just bruised, and one egg. Work all
together into a paste, adding a spoonful of brandy. Roll the paste out
to the thickness of a half-crown, and cut it with a tea-cup. Flour a
tin, and lay the cakes upon it. Take the white of an egg, well beaten
and frothed, dip a feather in this, and wash them over, and then grate
upon them a little fine sugar. Put them into a slackish oven, till they
are of a very pale brown.


_Dry Tea Cakes._

Boil two ounces of butter in a pint of skimmed milk; let it stand till
it is as cold as new milk; then put to it a spoonful of light yest, a
little salt, and as much flour as will make it a stiff paste. Work it as
much, or more, than you would do brown bread; let it lie half an hour to
rise; then roll it into thin cakes; prick them very well quite through,
to prevent their blistering, and bake them on tin plates in a quick
oven. To keep crisp, they must be hung up in the kitchen, or where there
is a constant fire.


_Thousand Cake._

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces of sugar, five
eggs, leaving out three whites; rub the flour, butter, and sugar, well
together; pour the eggs into it; work it up well; roll it out thin, and
cut them with a glass of what size you please.


_Tunbridge Cakes._

One pound and a half of flour, one pound of butter; rub the butter into
the flour; strew in a few caraways, and add the yolks of two eggs, first
beaten, and as much water as will make it into a paste: roll it out
thin, and prick it with a jagging iron; run the cakes into what shape
you please, or cut them with a glass. Just as you put them into the
oven, sift sugar on them, and a very little when they come out. The oven
must be as hot as for manchets. Bake them on paper.


_Veal Cake._

Take thin slices of veal, and fat and lean slices of ham, and lay the
bottom of a basin or mould with one slice of each in rows. Chop some
sweet-herbs very small, and fill the basin with alternate layers of veal
and ham, sprinkling every layer with the herbs. Season to your taste;
and add some hard yolks of eggs. When the basin is full, pour in some
gravy. Put a plate on the top, and a weight on it to keep the meat
close. Bake it about an hour and a half, and do not turn it out till
next day.


_Yorkshire Cakes._

Take two pounds of flour, three ounces of butter, the yolks of two eggs,
three spoonfuls of yest that is not bitter; melt the butter in half a
pint of milk; then mix them all well together; let it stand one hour by
the fire to rise; then roll the dough into cakes pretty thin. Set them a
quarter of an hour longer to the fire to rise; bake them on tins in a
moderate oven; toast and butter them as you do muffins.


_Calves' Foot Jelly._ No. 1.

To two calves' feet put a gallon of water, and boil it to two quarts;
run it through a sieve, and let it stand till it is cold; then take off
all the fat, and put the jelly in a pan, with a pint of white wine, the
juice of two lemons, sugar to your taste, and the whites of six eggs.
Stir these together near half an hour, then strain it through a
jelly-bag; put a piece of lemon-peel in the bag; let it pass through the
bag till it is clear. If you wish this jelly to be very clear and
strong, add an ounce of isinglass.


_Calves' Foot Jelly._ No. 2.

Boil four calves' feet in three quarts of water for three or four hours,
or till they will not hold together, now and then skimming off the fat.
The liquor must be reduced to a quart. When you have quite cleared it
from the fat, which must be done by papering it over, add to it nearly a
bottle of white wine, sherry is the best, the juice of four or five
lemons, the peel also pared very thin, so that no white is left on it,
and sugar to your taste. Then beat up six whites of eggs to a stiff
froth, and with a whisk keep stirring it over the fire till it boils.
Then pour it into the jelly-bag, and keep changing it till it comes
clear. This quantity will produce about a quart of jelly strong enough
to turn out of moulds.


_Calves' Foot Jelly._ No. 3.

Take two feet to two quarts of water; reduce it to three pints of jelly.
Then add the juice and peel of four lemons, one ounce of isinglass, the
shells and whites of four eggs, a little cinnamon, mace, and allspice,
and a good half pint of Madeira.


_Calves' Foot Jelly._ No. 4.

Stew a calf's foot slowly to a jelly. Melt it with a little wine, sugar,
and lemon-peel.


_Cheese, to make._

Strain some milk into a cheese tub, as warm as you can from the cow; put
into it a large quantity of strong runnet, about a spoonful to sixty
quarts; stir it well with a fleeting dish; and cover it close with a
wooden cover, made to fit your tub. About the middle of June, let it
stand thus three quarters of an hour, in hotter weather less, in cold
weather somewhat longer. When it is come, break it pretty small with a
dish, and stir it gently till it is all come to a curd; then press it
down gently with your dish and hand, so that the whey do not rise over
it white; after the whey is pretty well drained and the curd become
tolerably hard, break it into a vat very small, heaped up as high as
possible, and press it down, at first gently and then harder, with your
hands, till as much whey as possible can be got out that way, and yet
the curd continues at least two inches above the vat; otherwise the
cheese will not take press, that is, will be sour, and full of eyes and
holes.

Then put the curd into one end of a good flaxen cloth, and cover it with
the other end, tucking it in with a wooden cheese knife, so as to make
it lie smooth and keep the curd quite in; then press it with a heavy
weight or in a press, for five or six hours, when it will be fit to turn
into a dry cloth, in which press it again for four hours. Then take it
out, salt it well over, or it will become maggoty, and put it into the
vat again for twelve hours. Take it out; salt it a second time; and
leave it in a tub or on a dresser four days, turning it every day. This
done, wash it with cold water, wipe it with a dry cloth, and store it up
in your cheese-loft, turning and wiping it every day till it is quite
dry. The reason of mouldiness, cracks, and rottenness within, is the not
well pressing, turning, or curing, the curd and cheese.


_The best Cheese in the world._

To make a cheese in the style of Stilton cheese, only much better, take
the new milk of seven cows, with the cream from the milk of seven cows.
Heat a gallon of water scalding hot, and put into it three or four
handfuls of marigolds bruised a little; strain it into the tub
containing the milk and cream, and put to it some runnet, but not so
much as to make it come very hard. Put the curd into a sieve to drain;
do not break it all, but, as the whey runs out, tie up the cloth, and
let it stand half an hour or more. Then cut the curd in pieces; pour
upon it as much cold water as will cover it, and let it stand half an
hour. Put part of it into a vat or a hoop nearly six inches deep; break
the top of it a little, just to make it join with the other, and strew
on it a very little salt; then put in the other part, lay a fifty-pound
weight upon it, and let it stand half an hour. Turn it, and put it into
the press. Turn it into wet clean cloths every hour of the day. Next
morning salt it; and let it lie in the salt a night and a day. Keep it
swathed tight, till it begins to dry and coat, and keep it covered with
a clean cloth for a long time.

The month of August is the best time for making this cheese, which
should be kept a year before it is cut.


_Cheese, to stew._

Scrape some rich old cheese into a saucepan, with a small piece of
butter and a spoonful of cream. Let it stew till it is smooth; add the
yolk of one egg; give it a boil all together. Serve it up on a buttered
toast, and brown it with a salamander.


_Cream Cheese._

Take a basin of thick cream, let it stand some time; then salt it, put a
thin cloth over a hair-sieve, and pour the cream on it. Shift the cloth
every day, till it is proper; then wrap the cheese up to ripen in nettle
or vine leaves.


_Another._

Take a quart of new milk and a quart of cream; warm them together, and
put to it a spoonful of runnet; let it stand three hours; then take it
out with a skimming-dish; break the curd as little as possible; put it
into a straw vat, which is just big enough to hold this quantity; let it
stand in the vat two days; take it out, and sprinkle a little salt over
it; turn it every day, and it will be ready in ten days.


_Princess Amelia's Cream Cheese._

Wash the soap out of a napkin; double it to the required size, and put
it wet into a pewter soup-plate. Put into it a pint of cream; cover it,
and let it stand twenty-four hours unless the weather is very hot, in
which case not so long. Turn the cheese in the napkin: sprinkle a little
salt over it, and let it stand twelve hours. Then turn it into a very
dry napkin out of which all soap has been washed, and salt the other
side. It will be fit to eat in a day or two according to the weather.
Some keep it in nut leaves to ripen it.


_Irish Cream Cheese._

Take a quart of very thick cream, and stir well into it two spoonfuls of
salt. Double a napkin in two, and lay it in a punch-bowl. Pour the cream
into it; turn the four corners over the cream, and let it stand for two
days. Put it into a dry cloth within a little wooden cheese-vat; turn it
into dry cloths twice a day till it is quite dry, and it will be fit to
eat in a few days. Keep it in clean cloths in a cool place.


_Rush Cheese._

Take a quart of cream, put to it a gill of new milk; boil one half of it
and put it to the other; then let it stand till it is of the warmth of
new milk, after which put in a little earning, and, when sufficiently
come, break it as little as you can; put it into a vat that has a rush
bottom, lay it on a smooth board, and turn it every day till ripe.


_Winter Cream Cheese._

Take twenty quarts of new milk warm from the cow; strain it into a tub;
have ready four quarts of good cream boiled to put to it, and about a
quart of spring water, boiling hot, and stir all well together; put in
your earning, and stir it well in; keep it by the fire till it is well
come. Then take it gently into a sieve to whey it, and after that put it
into a vat, either square or round, with a cheese-board upon it, of two
pounds weight at first, which is to be increased by degrees to six
pounds; turn it into dry cloths two or three times a day for a week or
ten days, and salt it with dry salt, the third day. When you take it out
of the vat, lay it upon a board, and turn and wipe it every other day
till it is dry. It is best to be made as soon as the cows go into fog.

The cheeses are fit to eat in Lent, sometimes at Christmas, according to
the state of the ground.


_To make Cream Cheese without Cream._

Take a quart of milk warm from the cow and two quarts of boiling water.
When the curd is ready for the cheese-vat, put it in, without breaking
it, by a dishful at a time, and fill it up as it drains off. It must not
be pressed. The cheese-vat should have holes in it all over like a
colander. Take out the cheese when it will bear it, and ripen it upon
rushes: it must be more than nine inches deep.


_Damson Cheese._

Take the damsons full ripe, and squeeze out the stones, which put into
the preserving-pan, with as much water as will cover them: let them
simmer till the stones are quite clear, and put your fruit into the
liquor. Take three pounds of good powder sugar to six pounds of fruit;
boil it very fast till quite thick; then break the stones, and put the
whole kernels into it, before you put it into moulds for use.


_Another._

Boil up one pound of damsons with three quarters of a pound of sugar;
when the fruit begins to break, take out the stones and the skins; or,
what is a better way, pulp them through a colander. Then peel and put in
some of the kernels; boil it very high; it will turn out to the shape of
any pots or moulds, and is very good.


_French Cheese._

Boil two pints of milk and one of cream, with a blade of mace and a
little cinnamon: put the yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, well
beaten, into your milk, and set on the fire again, stirring it all the
while till it boils. Take it off, and stir it till it is a little
cooled; then put in the juice of two lemons, and let it stand awhile
with the lemons in it. Put it in a linen strainer, and hang it up to
drain out the whey. When it is drained dry, take it down, and put to it
a spoonful or two of rose-water, and sweeten it to your taste: put it
into your pan, which must be full of holes; let it stand a little; put
it into your dish with cream, and stick some blanched almonds about it.


_Italian Cheese._

One quart of cream, a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons, a
little lemon-peel, and sugar to your taste; beat it with a whisk a
quarter of an hour; then pour it on a buttered cloth, over a sieve, to
drain all night, and turn it out just before it is sent to table. Strew
comfits on the top, and garnish as you like.


_Lemon Cheese--very good._

Into a quart of thick sweet cream put the juice of three lemons, with
the rind finely grated; sweeten it to your taste; beat it very well;
then put it into a sieve, with some fine muslin underneath it, and let
it stand all night. Next day turn it out, and garnish with preserved
orange or marmalade.

Half the above quantity makes a large cheese. Do not beat it till it
comes to butter, but only till it is near coming. It is a very pretty
dish.


_Cheesecake._ No. 1.

Take four quarts of new milk and a pint of cream; put in a blade or two
of mace, with a bag of ambergris; set it with as much runnet as will
bring it to a tender curd. When it has come, break it as you would a
cheese, and, when you have got what whey you can from it, put it in a
cloth and lay it in a pan or cheese-hoop, placing on it a weight of five
or six pounds, and, when you find it well pressed out, put it into an
earthen dish, bruising it very small with a spoon. Then take two ounces
of almonds, blanch and beat them with rose-water and cream; mix these
well together among your curd; sweeten them with loaf-sugar; put in
something more than a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, with the yolks
of six eggs mixed together. When you are ready to put it into crust,
strew in half a pound of currants; let the butter boil that you make
your crust with; roll out the cakes very thin. The oven must not be too
hot, and great care must be taken in the baking. When they rise up to
the top they are sufficiently done.


_Cheesecake._ No. 2.

Blanch half a pound of the best sweet almonds, and beat them very fine.
Add two spoonfuls of orange-flower or rose-water, half a pound of
currants, half a pound of the finest sugar, beaten and sifted, and two
quarts of thick cream, which must be kept stirred over a gentle fire.
When almost cold, add eight eggs, leaving out half the whites, well
beaten and strained, a little beaten mace and finely powdered cinnamon,
with four well pounded cloves. Mix them well into the rest of the
ingredients, keeping it still over the fire as before. Pour it well
beaten into puff-paste for the oven, and if it be well heated they will
be baked in a quarter of an hour.


_Cheesecake._ No. 3.

Take two quarts of milk, make it into curd with a little runnet; when it
is drained as dry as possible, put to it a quarter of a pound of butter;
rub both together in a marble mortar till smooth; then add one ounce of
almonds blanched; beat two Naples biscuits, and about as much crumb of
roll; put seven yolks of eggs, but only one white; season it with mace
and a little rose-water, and sweeten to your taste.


_Cheesecake._ No. 4.

Break one gallon of milk with runnet, and press it dry; then beat it in
a mortar very small; put in half a pound of butter, and beat the whole
over again until it is as smooth as butter. Put to it six eggs, leaving
out half the whites; beat them very light with sack and rose-water, half
a nutmeg grated, half a quarter of a pound of almonds beaten fine with
rose-water and a little brandy. Sweeten to your taste; put in what
currants you like, make a rich crust, and bake in a quick oven.


_Cheesecake._ No. 5.

A quart of milk with eight eggs beat together; when it is come to a
curd, put it into a sieve, and strain the whey out. Beat a quarter of a
pound of butter with the curd in a mortar, with three eggs and three
spoonfuls of sugar; pound it together very light; add half a nutmeg and
a very little salt.


_Cheesecake._ No. 6.

Take a pint of milk, four eggs well beaten, three ounces of butter, half
a pound of sugar, the peel of a lemon grated; put all together into a
kettle, and set it over a clear fire; keep stirring it till it begins to
boil; then mix one spoonful of flour with as much milk as will just mix
it, and put it into the kettle with the rest. When it begins to boil,
take it off the fire, and put it into an earthen pan; let it stand till
the next morning; then add a quarter of a pound of currants, a little
nutmeg, and half a glass of brandy.


_Almond Cheesecake._

Blanch six ounces of sweet and half an ounce of bitter almonds; let them
lie half an hour on a stove or before the fire; pound them very fine
with two table-spoonfuls of rose or orange-flower water; put in the
stewpan half a pound of fresh butter, add to this the almonds, six
ounces of sifted loaf-sugar, a little grated lemon-peel, some good
cream, and the yolks of four eggs; rub all well together with the
pestle; cover the pattypans with puff paste, fill them with the mixture,
and bake it half an hour in a brisk oven.


_Cocoa-nut Cheesecakes._

Take a cocoa-nut, which by many is thought far superior to almonds;
grate it the long way; put to it some thick syrup, mixing it by degrees.
Boil it till it comes to the consistence of cheese; when half cold add
to it two eggs; beat it up with rose-water till it is light: if too
thick, add a little more rose-water. When beaten up as light as
possible, pour it upon a fine crust in cheesecake pans, and, just before
they are going into the oven, sift over some fine sugar, which will
raise a nice crust and much improve their appearance. The addition of
half a pound of butter just melted, and eight more eggs, leaving out
half of the whites, makes an excellent pudding.


_Cream Cheesecake._

Two quarts of cream set on a slow fire, put into it twelve eggs very
well beat and strained, stir it softly till it boils gently and breaks
into whey and a fine soft curd; then take the curd as it rises off the
whey, and put it into an earthen pan; then break four eggs more, and put
to the whey; set it on the fire, and take off the curd as before, and
put it to the rest: then add fourteen ounces of butter, half a pound of
light Naples biscuit grated fine, a quarter of a pound of almonds beat
fine with rose-water, one pound of currants, well washed and picked,
some nutmeg grated, and sugar to your taste: a short crust.


_Curd Cheesecake._

Just warm a quart of new milk; put into it a spoonful of runnet, and set
it near the fire till it breaks. Strain it through a sieve; put the curd
into a pan, and beat it well with a spoon. Melt a quarter of a pound of
butter, put in the same quantity of moist sugar, a little grated nutmeg,
two Naples biscuits, grated fine, the yolks of four eggs beat well, and
the whites of two, a glass of raisin wine, a few bitter almonds, with
lemon or Seville orange-peel cut fine, a quarter of a pound of currants
plumped; mix all well together, and put it into the paste and pans for
baking.


_Lemon Cheesecake._

Grate the rind of three to the juice of two lemons; mix them with three
sponge biscuits, six ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of sifted
sugar, half a gill of cream, and three eggs well beaten. Work them well,
and fill the pan, which must be lined with puff-paste; lay on the top
some candied lemon-peel cut thin.


_Another._

Boil the peel of two lemons till tender; pound it in a mortar very fine;
blanch and pound a few almond kernels with the peel. Mix a quarter of a
pound of loaf sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of six
eggs, all together in the mortar, and put it in the puff-paste for
baking. This quantity will make twelve or fourteen cakes.


_Orange Cheesecake._

Take the peel of one orange and a half and one lemon grated; squeeze out
the juice; add a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound
of melted butter, four eggs, leaving out the whites, a little Naples
biscuit grated, to thicken it, and a little white wine. Put almonds in
it if you like.


_Scotch Cheesecake._

Put one ounce of butter into a saucepan to clarify; add one ounce of
powder sugar and two eggs; stir it over a slow fire until it almost
boils, but not quite. Line your pattypans with paste; bake the cakes of
a nice brown, and serve them up between hot and cold.


_Cherries, to preserve._ No. 1.

Take either morella or carnation; stone the fruit; to morella cherries
take the jelly of white currants, drawn with a little water, and run
through a jelly-bag; to a pint and a half of jelly, add three pounds of
fine sugar. Set it on a quick fire; when it boils, skim it, and put in a
pound of stoned cherries. Let them not boil too fast at first; take them
off at times; but when they are tender boil them very fast till they are
very clear and jelly; then put them into pots or glasses. The carnation
cherries must have red currant jelly; if you have not white currant
jelly for the morella, codling jelly will do.


_Cherries, to preserve._ No. 2.

To three quarters of a pound of cherries stoned take one pound and a
quarter of sugar; leave out a quarter of a pound to strew on them as
they boil. Put in the preserving-pan a layer of cherries and a layer of
sugar, till they are all in; boil them quick, keeping them closely
covered with white paper, which take off frequently, and skim them;
strew the sugar kept out over them; it will clear them very much. When
they look clear they are done enough. Take them out of the syrup quite
clear from the skim; strain the syrup through a fine sieve; then put to
it a quarter of a pint of the juice of white currants, put them into the
pan again, and boil it till it is a hanging jelly. Just before it is
quite done put in the cherries; give them a boil, and put them into
pots. There must be fourteen spoonfuls of water put in at first with the
cherries.


_Cherries, to preserve._ No. 3.

Stone the cherries, and to twelve pounds of fruit put nine pounds of
sugar; boil the sugar-candy high; stir it well; throw in the cherries;
let them not boil too fast at first, stirring them often in the pan;
afterwards boil them fast till they become tender.


_Morella Cherries, to preserve._

When you have stalked and stoned your cherries, put to them an equal
weight of sugar: make your syrup, skim it, and take it off the fire.
Skim it again well, and put in your cherries, shaking them with care in
the pan. Boil them, not on a quick fire, lest the fruit should crack;
and take them off the fire several times. Let them boil till done; put
your cherries into pots; strain the syrup through muslin, and boil it
again till thoroughly done.


_Morella Cherries, to preserve in Brandy._

Take two pounds of morella cherries, when not too ripe, but finely
coloured, weighed with their stalks and stones. Put a quart of water and
twelve ounces of double-refined sugar into a preserving-pan, and set it
over a clear charcoal fire. Let it boil a quarter of an hour; skim it
clean, and set it by till cold. Then take away the stalks and stones,
and, when the syrup is quite cold, put the stoned cherries into the
syrup, set them over a gentle fire, and let them barely simmer till
their skins begin to rise. Take them from the fire; pour them into a
basin; cut a piece of paper round of the size of the basin; lay it close
upon the cherries while hot, and let them stand so till next day. Set a
hair sieve in a pan, and pour the cherries into it; let them drain till
the syrup is all drained out: boil the syrup till reduced to two-thirds,
and set it aside till cold. Put your cherries into a glass jar; put to
them a spoonful of their own syrup and one of brandy, and continue to do
so till the jar is filled within two inches of the top: then put over it
a wet bladder, and a piece of leather over that; tie it down close, and
keep it in a warm place.

If you do not mind the stones, merely cut off the stalks of the
cherries.


_Brandy Cherries._

To each bottle of brandy add half a pound of white sugar-candy: let this
dissolve; cut the large ripe morella cherries from the tree into a glass
or earthen jar, leaving the stalks about half the original length. When
the jar is full, pour upon the cherries the brandy as above. Let the
fruit be completely covered, and fill it up as the liquor settles. Cork
the jar, and tie a leather over the top. Apricot kernels blanched and
put in are an agreeable addition.


_Cherries, to dry._

Stone the cherries, and to ten pounds when stoned put three pounds of
sugar finely beaten. Shake the cherries and sugar well together; when
the sugar is quite dissolved, give them a boil or two over a slow fire,
and put them in an earthen pot. Next day scald them, lay them on a
sieve, and dry them in the sun, or in a oven, not too hot. Turn them
till they are dry enough, then put them up; but put no paper.


_Liquor for dried Cherries._

Take some red currants, and boil them in water till it is very red; then
put it to your cherries and sugar it; this makes them of a good colour.


_Cherry Jam._

Take twelve pounds of stoned cherries; boil and break them as they boil,
and, when you have boiled all the juice away, and can see the bottom of
the pan, put in three pounds of sugar finely beaten: stir it well in;
give the fruit two or three boils, and put it in pots or glasses, and
cover with brandy paper.


_Cocoa._

Take three table-spoonfuls of cocoa and one dessert spoonful of flour;
beat them well together, and boil in a pint and a half of spring water,
upon a slow fire, for two or three hours, and then strain it for use.


_Cocoa-Nut Candy._

Grate a cocoa-nut on a fine bread grater; weigh it, and add the same
quantity of loaf-sugar: melt the sugar with rose-water, of which, for a
small cocoa-nut, put six table-spoonfuls. When the syrup is clarified
and boiling, throw in the cocoa-nut by degrees; keep stirring it all the
time, whilst boiling, with a wooden slice, to prevent it burning to the
bottom of the pan, which it is very apt to do, unless great care is
taken. When the candy is sufficiently boiled, spread it on a pasteboard
previously rubbed with a wet cloth, and cut it in whatever shape you
please.

To know when the candy is sufficiently boiled, drop a small quantity on
the pasteboard, and if the syrup does not run from the cocoa-nut, it is
done enough; when the candy is cold, put it on a dish, and keep it in a
dry place.


_Coffee, to roast._

For this purpose you must have a roaster with a spit. Put in no more
coffee than will have room enough to work about well. Set it down to a
good fire; put in every now and then a little fresh butter, and mix it
well with a spoon. It will take five or six hours to roast. When done,
turn it out into a large dish or a dripping-pan, till it is quite dry.


_Another way._

Take two pounds of coffee, and put it into a roaster. Roast it one hour
before a brisk fire; add two ounces of butter, and let it roast till it
becomes of a fine brown. Watch, that it does not burn. Two hours and a
half will do it. Take half a pound for eight cups.


_Coffee to make the foreign way._

Take Demarara--Bean Dutch coffee--in preference to Mocha coffee; wash it
well. When it is very clean, put it in an earthen vessel, and cover it
close, taking great care that no air gets to it; then grind it very
thoroughly. Put a good half pint of coffee into a large coffee-pot, that
holds three quarts, with a large table-spoonful of mustard; then pour
upon it boiling water. It is of great consequence that the water should
boil; but do not fill the coffee-pot too full, for fear of its boiling
over, and losing the aromatic oil. Then pour the whole contents
backwards and forwards several times into a clean cup or basin, wiping
the basin or cup each time--this will clear it sufficiently. Let it then
stand ten minutes, after which, when cool, pour it clear off the grounds
steadily, into clean bottles, and lay them down on their sides, well
corked. Do not throw away your coffee grounds, but add another
table-spoonful of mustard to them, and fill up the vessel with boiling
water, doing as before directed. Be sure to cork the bottles well; lay
them down on one side, and before you want to use them set them up for a
couple of hours, in case any sediment should remain. Let it come to the
boil, always taking care that it is neither smoked nor boils over. All
coffee should be kept on a lamp while you are using it.

By following this receipt as much coffee will be obtained for threepence
as you would otherwise get for a shilling; and it is the best possible
coffee.


_To make Cream rise in cold weather._

Dip each pan or bowl into a pail of boiling water before you strain the
milk into it. Put a close cover over each for about ten minutes: the hot
steam causes the cream to rise thick and rich.


_Cream, to fry._

Take two spoonfuls of fine flour and the yolks of four eggs; grate in
the rind of one lemon; beat them well with the flour, and add a pint of
cream. Mix these very well together; sweeten to your taste, and add a
bit of cinnamon. Put the whole in a stewpan over a slow fire; continue
to stir it until it is quite hot; but it must not boil. Take out the
cinnamon; beat two eggs very well, and put them into the cream; butter a
pewter dish; pour the cream in it; put it into a warm oven to set, but
not to colour it. When cold, cut it into pieces, and have ready a
stewpan or frying-pan, with a good deal of lard; dredge the cream with
flour; fry the pieces of a light brown, grate sugar over them, glaze
with a salamander, and serve them very hot.


_Artificial Cream and Curd._

A pint of good new milk, nine whites of eggs beat up, and well stirred
and mixed with the milk; put it on a slow fire to turn; then take it
off, and drain it through a fine sieve, and set it into a basin or
mould. To make the cream for it, take a pint of milk and the yolks of
four eggs well beat, boil it with a bit of cinnamon over a slow fire;
keep it constantly stirring; when it is as thick as rich cream, take it
off, and stir it a little while afterwards.


_Cream of Rice._

Wash and well clean some very good rice; put it into a stewpan, with
water, and boil it gently till quite soft, with a little cinnamon, if
agreeable to the taste. When the rice is boiled quite soft, take out the
cinnamon. Then take a large dish, and set it on a table: have a clean
tamis--a new one would be better--a tamis is only the piece of flannel
commonly used in kitchens for passing sauces through--and give one end
of the tamis to a person on the opposite side of the table to hold,
while you hold the other end with your left hand. Having a large wooden
spoon in your right, you put two or three spoonfuls of boiled rice into
this tamis, which is held over the large dish, and rub the rice upon it
with the spoon till it passes through into the dish. Whatever sticks to
the tamis take off with a silver spoon and put into the dish. When you
have passed the quantity you want, put it in a basin. It should be made
fresh every day. Warm it for use in a small silver or tin saucepan,
adding a little sugar and Madeira, according to your taste.


_Almond Cream._

Make this in the manner directed for pistachio cream, adding half a
dozen bitter almonds to the sweet.


_Barley Cream._

Take half a pint of pearl barley, and two quarts of water. Boil it half
away, and then strain it out. Put in some juice of lemons; sweeten it to
your taste. Steep two ounces of sweet almonds in rose-water; and blanch,
stamp, and strain them through into the barley, till it is as white as
milk.


_French Barley Cream._

Boil your barley in two or three waters, till it looks white and tender;
pour the water clean from the barley, and put as much cream as will make
it tolerably thick, and a blade or two of mace, and let it boil. To a
pint and a half of cream put two ounces of almonds, blanched and ground
with rose-water. Strain them with cold cream; put the cream through the
almonds two or three times, wringing it hard. Sweeten to your taste; let
it boil; and put it in a broad dish.


_Chocolate Cream._

Boil a quart of thick cream, scraping into it one ounce of chocolate.
Add about a quarter of a pound of sugar; when it is cold put nine whites
of eggs; whisk it, and, as the froth rises, put it into glasses.


_Citron Cream._

To a quarter of a pound of citron pounded put three gills of cream: mill
it up with a chocolate-stick till the citron is mixed; put it in sugar
if needful.


_Clotted Cream._

Set the milk in the usual way; when it has stood twelve hours, it is,
without being skimmed, to be placed in a stove and scalded, of course
not suffered to boil, and then left to stand again for twelve hours;
then take off the cream which floats at the top in lumps, for which
reason it is called clotted cream; it may be churned into butter; the
skim milk makes cheese.


_Coffee Cream._

Take two ounces of whole coffee, one quart of cream, about four ounces
of fine sugar, a small piece of the yellow rind of a lemon, with rather
less than half an ounce of the best picked isinglass. Boil these
ingredients, stirring them now and then, till the cream is highly
flavoured with the coffee. It might, perhaps, be better to flavour the
cream first, and then dissolve the isinglass and put it to it. Take it
off the fire; have ready the yolks of six eggs beaten, which add to the
cream, and continue to beat it till it is about lukewarm, lest the eggs
should turn the cream. Strain the whole through a fine sieve into the
dish in which you mean to serve it, which must be first fixed into a
stewpan of boiling water, that will hold it so commodiously, that the
bottom only will touch the water, and not a drop of the water come to
the cream. Cover the cream with the lid of a stewpan, and in that lid
put two or three bits of lighted charcoal, moving them from one part to
another, that it may all set alike; it should only simmer. When it has
done in this manner for a short time, take off the cover of the stewpan;
if not done enough, cover it again, and put fresh charcoal; it should be
done so as to form a weak jelly. Take it off, and keep it in a cool
place till you serve it. If you wish to turn it out in a mould, boil
more isinglass in it. Tea cream is made in the same manner.


_Eringo Cream._

Take a quarter of a pound of eringoes, and break them into short pieces;
put to them a pint of milk; let it boil till the eringoes are very
tender; then pour the milk from them; put in a pint of cream to the
eringoes; let them boil; put in an egg, beaten well, to thicken, and
dish it up.


_Fruit Cream._

Scald your fruit; when done, pulp it through a sieve; let it stand till
almost cold; then sweeten it to your taste; put it into your cream, and
make it of whatever thickness you please.


_Preserved Fruit Creams._

Put half a pound of the pulp of any preserved fruit in a large pan: add
to it the whites of three eggs, well beaten; beat these well together
for an hour. Take it off with a spoon, and lay it up high on the dish or
glasses. Raspberries will not do this way.


_Italian Cream._

Boil a pint of cream with half a pint of new milk; when it boils throw
in the peel of an orange and a lemon, with a quarter of a pound of
sugar, and a small pinch of salt. When the cream is impregnated with the
flavour of the fruit, mix and beat it with the yolks of eight eggs; set
it on the fire to be made equally thick; as soon as it is thick enough
for the eggs to be done, put into it an ounce of dissolved isinglass;
drain it well through a sieve: put some of the cream into a small mould,
to see if it is thick enough: if not, add more isinglass. Lay this
preparation in a mould in some salt or ice; when it is quite stiff, and
you wish to send it up, dip a napkin in hot water, and put it round the
mould, which turn upside down in the dish.


_Another._

Put two table-spoonfuls of sifted sugar, half of a gill of white wine,
with a little brandy, a table-spoonful of lemon-juice, and the rind of a
lemon, in a basin, with a pint of cream well whipped together; put thin
muslin in the shape or mould, and set it in a cold place, or on ice,
till wanted.


_Lemon Cream._ No. 1.

Take five large lemons and rasp off all the outside; then squeeze the
lemons, and put what you have rasped off into the juice; let it stand
two or three hours, if all night the better. Take eight whites of eggs
and one yolk, and beat them well together; put to it a pint of spring
water: then mix them all, and sweeten it with double-refined sugar
according to your taste. Set it over a chaffing-dish of coals, stirring
it till it is of a proper thickness; then dish it out. Be sure not to
let it boil.


_Lemon Cream._ No. 2.

Pare three smooth-skinned lemons; squeeze out the juice; cut the peel in
small pieces, and put it to the juice. Let it stand two or three hours
closely covered, and, when it has acquired the flavour of the peel, add
to it the whites of five eggs and the yolks of three. Beat them well
with two spoonfuls of orange-flower water; sweeten with double-refined
sugar; strain it; set it over a slow fire, and stir it carefully till it
is as thick as cream; then pour it into glasses.


_Lemon Cream._ No. 3.

Set on the fire three pints of cream; when it is ready to boil, take it
off, and squeeze a lemon into it. Stir it up; hang it up in a cloth,
till the whey has run out; sweeten it to your taste, and serve it up.


_Lemon Cream._ No. 4.

Take the sweetest cream, and squeeze in juice of lemon to your taste:
put it into a churn, and shake it till it rises or ferments. Sweeten it
to your taste, but be sure not to put any sugar before you churn it, for
that will hinder the fermentation.


_Lemon Cream._ No. 5.

Pare two lemons, and squeeze to them the juice of one larger or two
smaller; let it remain some time, and then strain the juice to a pint of
cream, and add the yolks of four eggs beaten and strained; sweeten it,
and stir it over the fire till thick. You may add a little brandy, if
agreeable.


_Lemon Cream without Cream._

Squeeze three lemons, and put the parings into the juice; cover and let
it remain three hours; beat the yolks of two eggs and the whites of
four; sweeten this; add a little orange-flower water, and put it to the
lemon-juice. Set the whole over a slow fire till it becomes as thick as
cream, and take particular care not to let it boil.


_Lemon Cream frothed._

Make a pint of cream very sweet, and add the paring of one lemon; let it
just boil; put the juice of one large lemon into a glass or china dish,
and, when the cream is nearly cold, pour it out of a tea-pot upon the
juice, holding it as high as possible. Serve it up.


_Orange Cream._

Squeeze the juice of four oranges to the rind of one; pat it over the
fire with about a pint of cream, and take out the peel before the cream
becomes bitter. Boil the cream, and, when cold, put to it the yolks of
four eggs and the whites of three, beaten and strained, and sugar to
your taste. Scald this, but keep stirring all the time, until of a
proper thickness.


_Orange Cream frothed._

Proceed in the same way as with the lemon, but put no peel in the cream;
merely steep a bit a short time in the juice.


_Imperial Orange Cream._

Take a pint of thick sweet cream, and boil it with a little orange-peel.
When it just boils, take it off the fire, and stir it till it is no
hotter than milk from the cow. Have ready the juice of four Seville
oranges and four lemons; strain the juice through a jelly-bag, and
sweeten it well with fine sugar, and a small spoonful of orange-flower
water. Set your dish on the ground, and, your juice being in it, pour
the cream from as great a height as you can, that it may bubble up on
the top of the cream; then set it by for five or six hours before you
use it, if the weather is hot, but in winter it may stand a whole night.


_Pistachio Cream._

Take a quarter of a pound of pistachio-nuts and blanch them; then beat
them fine with rose-water; put them into a pint of cream; sweeten it,
let it just boil, and put it into glasses.


_Raspberry Cream._

To one pint of cream put six ounces of jam, and pulp it through a sieve,
adding the juice of a lemon; whisk it fast at the edge of your dish; lay
the froth on the sieve, and add a little more of the juice. When no more
froth will rise, put your cream into a dish or cups; heap the froth well
on.


_Ratafia Cream._

Boil three or four laurel-leaves in one pint of cream, and strain it;
when cold, add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained; then sweeten
it; put in it a very little brandy; scald it till thick, and keep
stirring it all the time.


_Rice Cream._

Boil a quart of milk with a laurel-leaf; pour it on five dessert
spoonfuls of ground rice; let it stand two hours; then put it into a
saucepan, and boil it till it is tender, with rather less than a quarter
of a pound of sugar. Beat the yolks of two eggs, and put them into it
when it is almost cold; and then boil till it is as thick as a cream.
When it is sent to table, put in a few ratafia biscuits.


_Runnet Whey Cream._

Turn new milk from the cow with runnet; press the whey from it; beat the
curd in a mortar till it is quite smooth; then mix it with thick cream,
and froth it with a froth-stick; add a little powdered sugar.


_Snow Cream._

Sweeten the whites of four eggs, add a pint of thick sweet cream and a
good spoonful of brandy. Whisk this well together; take off the froth,
and lay it upon a sieve; when all the froth that will rise is taken off,
pour what has run through to the rest. Stir it over a slow fire, and let
it just boil; fill your glasses about three parts full, and lay on the
froth.


_Strawberry Cream._

Exactly the same as raspberry.


_Sweetmeat Cream._

Slice preserved peaches, apricots, or plums, into good cream, sweetening
it with fine sugar, or the syrup in which they were preserved. Mix these
well together, and put it into glasses.


_Whipt Cream, to put upon Cake._

Sweeten a pint of cream to your taste; grate in the peel of a lemon, and
steep it some hours before you make use of your cream. Add the juice of
two lemons; whip it together; and take off the top into a large piece of
fine muslin, or gauze, laid within a sieve. Let this be done the night
before it is to be used. In summer it may be done in the morning of the
same day; but the whipt cream must be drained from the curd before it is
put upon the cake.


_Cucumbers, to preserve green._

Take fine large green cucumbers; put them in salt and water till they
are yellow; then green them over fresh salt and water in a little roch
alum. Cover them close with abundance of vine leaves, changing the
leaves as they become yellow. Put in some lemon-juice; and, when the
cucumbers are of a fine green, take them off and scald them several
times with hot water, or make a very thin syrup, changing it till the
raw taste of the cucumbers is taken away. Then make a syrup thus: to a
pound of cucumbers take one pound and a half of double-refined sugar;
leave out the half pound to add to them when boiled up again; put
lemon-peel, ginger cut in slices, white orris root, and any thing else
you like to flavour with; boil it well; when cool, put it to the
cucumbers, and let them remain a few days. Boil up the syrup with the
remainder of the sugar; continue to heat the syrup till they look clear.
Just before you take the syrup off, add lemon-juice to your taste.


_Cream Curd._

Boil a pint of cream, with a little mace, cinnamon, and rose-water, and,
when as cool as new milk, put in half a spoonful of good runnet. When it
turns, serve it up in the cream dish.


_Lemon Curd._

To a pint of cream, when it boils, put in the whites of six eggs, and
one lemon and a half; stir it until it comes to a tender curd. Then put
it into a holland bag, and let it drain till all the whey is out of it;
beat the curd in a mortar with a little sugar; put it in a basin to
form; about two or three hours before you use it, turn it out, and pour
thick cream and sugar over it.


_Paris Curd._

Put a pint of cream on the fire, with the juice of one lemon, and the
whites of six eggs; stir it till it becomes a curd. Hang it all night in
a cloth to drain; then add to it two ounces of sweet almonds, with
brandy and sugar to your taste. Mix it well in a mortar, and put it into
shapes.


_Currants, to bottle._

Gather your fruit perfectly dry, and not too ripe; cut each currant from
the stalk separately, taking care not to bruise them; fill your bottles
quite full, cork them lightly, set them in a boiler with cold water, and
let them simmer a quarter of an hour, or according to the nature and
ripeness of the fruit. By this process the fruit will sink; pour on as
much boiling water as will cover the surface and exclude air. Should
they mould, move it off when you use the fruit, and you will not find
the fruit injured by it. Cork your bottles quickly, after you take them
out of the water; tie a bladder over, and put them in a dry place. This
method answers equally well for gooseberries, cherries, greengages, and
damsons.


_Another way._

Gather the currants quite dry; clip them off the stalks; if they burst
in pulling off they will not do. Fill some dry common quart bottles with
them, rosin the corks well over, and then tie a bladder well soaked over
the cork, and upon the leather; all this is absolutely necessary to
keep the air out, and corks in; place the bottles, with the corks
downwards, in a boiler of cold water, and stuff hay between them to keep
them steady. Make a fire under them, and keep it up till the water
boils; then rake it out immediately, and leave the bottles in the boiler
till the water is quite cold. Put them into the cellar in any vessel
that will keep them steadily packed, the necks always downward. When a
bottle is opened, the currants must be used at once. The bottles will
not be above half full when taken out of the boiler, and they must not
be shaken more than can be avoided.

This process answers equally well for apricots, plums, and cherries.


_Currants or Barberries, to dry in bunches._

When the currants, or barberries, (which should be maiden barberries)
are stoned and tied up in bunches, take to one pound of them a pound and
a half of sugar. To each pound of sugar put half a pint of water; boil
the syrup well, and put the fruit into it. Set it on the fire; let it
just boil, and then take it off. Cover it close with white paper; let it
stand till next day; then make it scalding hot, and let it stand two or
three days, covered close with paper. Lay it in earthen plates; sprinkle
over it fine sugar, put it on a stove to dry; lay it on sieves till one
side is dry; then turn and sift sugar on it. When dry enough lay it
between papers.


_Currants, to ice._

Take the largest and finest bunches of currants you can get; beat the
white of an egg to a froth; dip them into it; lay them, so as not to
touch, upon a sieve: sift double-refined sugar over them very thick, and
let them dry in a stove or oven.


_White Currants, to preserve._

Take the largest white currants, but not the amber colour; strip them,
and to two quarts of currants put a pint of water; boil them very fast,
and run them through a jelly-bag to a pint of juice. Put a pound and
half of sugar, and half a pound of stoned currants; set them on a brisk
fire, and let them boil very fast till the currants are clear and jelly
very well; then put them into glasses or pots, stirring them as they
cool, to make them mix well. Paper them down when just cold.


_Red Currants, to preserve._

Mash the currants and strain them through a thin strainer; to a pint of
juice take a pound and a half of sugar and six spoonfuls of water. Boil
it up and skim it well. Put in half a pound of stoned currants; boil
them as fast as you can, till the currants are clear and jelly well;
then put them into pots or glasses, and, when cold, paper them as other
sweetmeats. Stir all small fruits as they cool, to mix them with the
jelly.


_Another way._

Take red and white currants; squeeze and drain them. Boil two pints of
juice with three pounds of fine sugar: skim it; then put in a pound of
stoned currants; let them boil fast till they jelly, and put them into
bottles.


_Currant Jam._

To a pound of currants put three quarters of a pound of lump sugar. Put
the fruit first into the preserving-pan, and place the sugar carefully
in the middle, so as not to touch the pan. Let it boil gently on a clear
fire for about half an hour. It must not be stirred. Skim the jelly
carefully from the top, and add a quarter of a pound of fruit to what
remains from the jelly; stir it well, and boil it thoroughly. The
proportion of fruit added for the jam must always be one quarter. In
making jelly or jam, it is an improvement to add to every five pounds of
currants one pound of raisins.


_Currant Jam or Jelly._

Take two pounds of currants and half a pound of raspberries: to every
pound of fruit add three quarters of a pound of good moist sugar. Simmer
them slowly; skim the jam very nicely; when boiled to a sufficient
consistency, put it into jars, and, when cold, cover with brandy paper.


_Black or red Currant Jelly._

Strip the fruit when full ripe; put it into a stone jar; put the jar,
tied over with white paper, into a saucepan of cold water, and stew it
to boiling on the stove. Strain off the liquor, and to every pint of red
currants weigh out a pound of loaf-sugar, if black, three quarters of a
pound; mix the fruit and the sugar in lumps, and let it rest till the
sugar is nearly dissolved. Then put it in a preserving-pan, and simmer
and skim it till it is quite clear. When it will jelly on a plate, it is
done, and may be put in pots.


_Currant Juice._

Take currants, and squeeze the juice out of them; have some very dry
quart bottles, and hold in each a couple of burning matches. Cork them
up, to keep the smoke confined in them for a few hours, till the juice
is put in them. Fill them to the neck with the currant juice; then
scald them in a copper or pot with hay between. The water must be cold
when the bottles are put in: let them have one boil.


_Another way._

Boil a pint of currant juice with half a pint of clarified sugar; skim
it; add a little lemon to taste, and mix with a quart of seed.


_Currant Paste._

Mash red and white currants; strain them through a linen bag; break in
as much of the strained currants as will make the juice thick enough of
seeds; add some gooseberries boiled in water. Boil the whole till it
jellies; let it stand to cool; then put a pound of sugar to every pint,
and scald it.


_Custard._ No. 1.

One quart of cream, twelve eggs, the whites of four, the rind of one
lemon, boiled in the cream, with a small quantity of nutmeg, and a
bay-leaf, bitter and sweet almonds one ounce each, a little ratafia and
orange-flower water; sweeten to your taste. The cream must be quite cold
before the eggs are added. When mixed, it must just be made to boil, and
then fill your cups.


_Custard._ No. 2.

Take one pint of cream, boil in it a few laurel-leaves, a stick of
cinnamon, and the rind of a lemon; when nearly cold, add the yolks of
seven eggs, well beaten, and six ounces of lump sugar; let it nearly
boil; keep stirring it all the while, and till nearly cold, and add a
little brandy.


_Custard._ No. 3.

A quart of cream, and the yolks of nine eggs, sugared to your taste; if
eggs are scarce, take seven and three whites; it must not quite boil, or
it will curdle; keep it stirred all the time over a slow fire. When it
is nearly cold, add three table-spoonfuls of ratafia; stir till cold,
otherwise it will turn. It is best without any white of eggs.


_Custard._ No. 4.

Take a pint of cream; blanch a few sweet almonds, and beat them fine;
sweeten to your palate. Beat up the yolks of five eggs, stir all
together, one way, over the fire, till it is thick. Add laurel-leaves,
bitter almonds, or ratafia, to give it a flavour; then put it into cups.


_Custard._ No. 5.

Make some rice, nicely boiled, into a good wall round your trifle dish;
strew the rice over with pink comfits; then pour good custard into the
rice frame, and stripe it across with pink and blue comfits alternately.


_Almond Custard._

Blanch and pound fine, with half a gill of rose-water, six ounces of
sweet and half an ounce of bitter almonds; boil a pint of milk; sweeten
it with two ounces and a half of sugar; rub the almonds through a sieve,
with a pint of cream; strain the milk to the yolks of eight eggs, well
beaten--three whites if thought necessary--stir it over a fire till of a
good thickness; when off the fire, stir it till nearly cold to prevent
its curdling.


_To bottle Damsons._

Take ripe fruit; wipe them dry, and pick off the stalks; fill your
bottles with them. The bottles must be very clean and dry. Put the corks
lightly into them, to keep out the steam when simmering: then set them
up to the necks in cold water, and let them simmer a quarter of an hour,
but not boil, or the fruit will crack. Take them out, and let them stand
all night. Next day, cork them tight, rosin the corks, and keep them in
a dry place.


_Damsons, to dry._

Pick out the finest damsons, and wipe them clean. To every pound of
fruit take half a pound of sugar; wet the damsons with water; and put
them into the sugar with the insides downward. Set them on the fire till
the sugar is melted; let them lie in the sugar till it has thoroughly
penetrated them, heating them once a day. When you take them out, dip
them in hot water, and lay them to dry.


_Damsons, to preserve without Sugar._

When the damsons are quite ripe, wipe them separately, and put them into
stone jars. Set them in an oven four or five times after the bread is
drawn. When the skins shrivel they are done enough; if they shrink much,
you must fill up the jar with more fruit, and cover them at last with
melted suet.


_Dripping, to clarify for Crust._

Boil beef dripping in water for a few minutes; let it stand till cold,
when it will come off in a cake. It makes good crust for the kitchen.


_Dumplings._

Take of stale bread, suet, and loaf-sugar, half a pound each; make the
whole so fine as to go through a sieve. Mix it with lemon-juice, and add
the rind of a lemon finely grated. Make it up into dumplings, and pour
over them sweet sauce without wine.


_Currant Dumplings._

A quarter of a pound of apple, a quarter of a pound of currants, three
eggs, some sugar, bitter almonds, lemon or orange peel, and a little
nutmeg. Boil an hour and a half.


_Drop Dumplings._

To a piece of fresh butter, of the size of an egg, take three spoonfuls
of flour, and three yolks of eggs; stir the butter and eggs well
together; add a little salt and nutmeg, and then put the flour to it.
Drop the batter with a small spoon into boiling water, and let it boil
four or five minutes; pour the water from the dumplings, and eat them
with a ragout, or as a dish by itself.


_Another way._

Break two eggs into half a pint of milk, and beat them up; mix with
flour, and put a little salt. Set on the fire a saucepan with water,
and, when it boils, drop the batter in with a large spoon, and boil them
quick for five minutes. Take them out carefully with a slice, lay them
on a sieve for a minute to dry, put them into a dish, cut a piece of
butter in thin slices, and stir among them. Send them up as hot as you
can.


_Kitchen hard Dumplings._

Mix flour and water with a little salt into a stiff paste. Put in a few
currants for change, and boil them for half an hour. It improves them
much to boil them with beef or pork.


_Yest Dumplings._

A table-spoonful of yest, three handfuls of flour, mix with water and a
little salt. Boil ten minutes in a deep pot, and cover with water when
they rise. The dough to be made about the size of an apple. The quantity
mentioned above will make a dozen of the proper size.


_Another way._

Make nice light dough, by putting your flour into a platter; make a
hollow in the middle of it, and pour in a little good small beer warmed,
an egg well beaten, and some warm milk and water. Strew salt upon the
flour, but not upon the mixture in the middle, or it will not do well.
Then make it into as light a dough as you can, and set it before the
fire, covered with a cloth, a couple of hours, to rise. Make it into
large dumplings, and set them before the fire six or seven minutes;
then put them into boiling water with a little milk in it. A quarter of
an hour will do them.


_Eggs._

Eggs left till cold will reheat to the same degree as at first. For
instance, an egg boiled three minutes and left till cold will reheat in
the same time and not be harder. It may be useful to know this when
fresh eggs are scarce.


_Whites of Eggs._

Beat up the whites of twelve eggs with rose-water, some fine grated
lemon-peel, and nutmeg; sweeten to your taste, and well mix the whole.
Boil it in four bladders, tied up in the shape of an egg, till hard;
they will take half an hour. When cold, lay them in a dish; mix half a
pint of good cream, a gill of sack, and half the juice of a Seville
orange; sweeten and mix it well, and pour it over the eggs.


_Another way._

Beat two whites in a plate in a cool place till quite stiff and they
look like snow. Lay it on the lid of a stewpan; put it in a cool oven,
and bake it of a light brown for about ten minutes.


_Figs, to dry._

Take figs when thoroughly ripe, pare them very thin, and slit them at
the top. To one pound of fruit put three quarters of a pound of sugar,
and to the sugar a pint of water; boil the syrup at first a little, skim
it very clean, and set it over coals to keep it warm. Have ready some
warm water, and when it boils put in your figs; let them boil till
tender; then take them up by the stalk, and drain them clean from water.
Put them into the syrup over the fire for two or three hours, turning
them frequently; do the same morning and evening, keeping them warm, for
nine days, till you find them begin to candy. Then lay them out upon
glasses. Turn them often the first day, on the next twice only; they
will quickly dry if they are well attended to. A little ambergris or
musk gives the fruit a fine flavour. Peaches and plums may be done the
same way.


_Small Flowers, to candy._

Take as much fine sugar as you think likely to cover the flowers, and
wet it for a candy. When boiled pretty thick, put in your flowers, and
stir, but be careful not to bruise them. Keep them over the fire, but do
not let them boil till they are pretty dry; then rub the sugar off with
your hands as soon as you can, and take them out.


_Flowers in sprigs, to candy._

Dissolve gum arabic in water, and let it be pretty thin; wet the flowers
in it, and put them in a cloth to dry. When nearly dry, dip them all
over in finely sifted sugar, and hang them up before the fire, or, if it
should be a fine sunshiny day, hang them in the sun till they are
thoroughly dry, and then take them down. The same may be done to
marjoram and mint.


_Dutch Flummery._

Steep two ounces of isinglass two hours in a pint of boiling water; take
a pint of white wine, the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten, the juice of
four lemons, with the rind of one. Sweeten it to your taste; set it over
the fire, and keep it stirring till it boils.


_Hartshorn Flummery._ No. 1.

Take half a pound of hartshorn; boil it in four quarts of water, till
reduced to one quarter or less; let it stand all night. Blanch a quarter
of a pound of almonds, and beat them small; melt the jelly, mix with it
the almonds, strained through a thin strainer or hair sieve; then put a
quarter of a pint of cream, a little cinnamon, and a blade of mace; boil
these together, and sweeten it. Put it into china cups, and, when you
use it, turn it out of the cups, and eat it with cream.


_Hartshorn Flummery._ No. 2.

Put one pound of hartshorn shavings to three quarts of spring water;
boil it very gently over a slow fire till it is reduced to one quart,
then strain it through a fine sieve into a basin; let it stand till
cold; then just melt it, and put to it half a pint of white wine, a pint
of good thick cream, and four spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Scald
the cream, and let it be cold before you mix it with the wine and jelly;
sweeten it with double-refined sugar to your taste, and then beat it all
one way for an hour and a half at least, for, if you are not careful in
thus beating, it will neither mix nor even look to please you. Dip the
moulds first in water, that they may turn out well. Keep the flummery in
cups a day before you use it; when you serve it, stick it with blanched
almonds, cut in thin slices. Calves' feet may serve instead of hartshorn
shavings.


_Hartshorn Flummery._ No. 3.

Take one pound of hartshorn shavings, and put to it three quarts of
water; boil it till it is half consumed; then strain and press out the
hartshorn, and set it by to cool. Blanch four ounces of almonds in cold
water, and beat them very fine with a little rose and orange-flower
water. Make the jelly as warm as new milk, and sweeten it to your taste
with the best sugar; put it by degrees to the almonds, and stir it very
well until they are thoroughly mixed. Then wring it through a cloth, put
it into cups, and set it by to jelly. Before you turn them out, dip the
outside in a little warm water to loosen them; stick them with blanched
almonds, cut in thin long pieces. Three ounces of sweet almonds, and one
of apricot or peach kernels, make ratafia flummery. If you have none of
the latter, use bitter almonds.


_Fondues._

Boil a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread in milk; beat it with a
wooden spoon; grate half a pound of Cheshire cheese, add the yolks of
three eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter; beat all well together.
Beat up three whites of eggs to a thick froth; put this in last, and
beat the whole well together. Bake in two paper cases or a dish, in a
quick oven, for twenty minutes.


_Yorkshire Fritters._

To two quarts of flour take two spoonfuls of yest, mixed with a little
warm milk. Let it rise. Take nine eggs, leaving out four whites, and
temper your dough to the consistence of paste. Add currants or apples,
and a little brandy or rose-water. Roll the fritters thin, and fry them
in lard.


_Fruit, to preserve._

Strip the fruit, put it into a stone jar, set the jar in a saucepan of
water, and stew it to boiling on the stove. Strain off the liquor, and
to every pint allow a pound of loaf sugar. Mix the fruit and the sugar
in lumps in a stone vessel, but not till the sugar is nearly dissolved:
then put it in a preserving-pan, and simmer and strain it till it is
quite clear. When it will jelly on a plate, it is done, and may be put
into pots.


_Fruit, to preserve green._

Take green pippins, pears, plums, apricots, or peaches; put them into a
preserving-pan; cover them with vine-leaves, and then with clear spring
water. Put on the cover of the pan, and set them over a very clear fire;
take them off as soon as they begin to simmer, and take them carefully
out with a slice. Then peel and preserve them as other fruit.


_Fruit of all sorts, to scald._

Put your fruit into scalding water, sufficient nearly to cover it; set
it over a slow fire, and keep it in a scald till tender, turning the
fruit where the water does not cover. When it is very tender, lay paper
close to it, and let it stand till it is cold. Then, to a pound of fruit
put half a pound of sugar, and let it boil, but not too fast, till it
looks clear. All fruit must be done whole, excepting pippins, and they
are best in halves or quarters, with a little orange-peel and the juice
of lemon.


_Gingerbread._ No. 1.

To a pound and a half of flour add one pound of treacle, almost as much
sugar, an ounce of beaten ginger, two ounces of caraway seeds, four
ounces of citron and lemon-peel candied, and the yolks of four eggs. Cut
your sweetmeats, mix all, and bake it in large cakes, or tin plates.


_Gingerbread._ No. 2.

Into one pound and a half of flour work three quarters of a pound of
butter; add three quarters of a pound of treacle, two ounces of sugar,
half an ounce of ginger, a little orange-peel beaten and sifted. Some
take a pound and a quarter of treacle and two ounces of ginger.


_Gingerbread._ No. 3.

Two pounds of flour, two ounces of caraway seeds, one tea-spoonful of
powdered ginger, half a spoonful of allspice, and the same of pearl-ash,
two ounces of preserved orange, the same of lemon-peel, and half a pound
of butter; mix these ingredients well together, and make it into a stiff
paste with treacle, as stiff as you would make paste for a tart; then
put it before the fire to rise for one hour, after which you may roll it
out, and cut it into cakes, or mould it, as you like.


_Gingerbread._ No. 4.

Take a pound of treacle and half a pound of butter; melt them together
over a fire; have ready a pound and a half of flour well dried, into
which put at least half an ounce of ginger well beaten and sifted, as
many coriander seeds, half a pound of sugar, a little brandy, and some
candied orange-peel; then mix the warm treacle and butter with the
flour; make it into flat cakes, and bake it upon tins.


_Gingerbread._ No. 5.

Two pounds of flour well dried, one pound of treacle, one pound of
sugar, one nutmeg, four ounces of sweetmeats, one ounce of beaten
ginger, one pound of fresh butter, melted with the treacle, and poured
hot upon the other ingredients; make it into a paste, and let it lie
till quite cold; then roll it out, and bake it in a slow oven.


_Gingerbread._ No. 6.

One pound of treacle, the same weight of flour, butter and sugar of each
a quarter of a pound, ginger and candied lemon-peel of each half an
ounce. Rub the butter, ginger, and sugar, well together, before you put
in the treacle.


_Thick Gingerbread._

To a pound and a half of flour take one pound of treacle, almost as much
sugar, an ounce of beaten ginger, two ounces of caraway seed, four
ounces of citron and lemon-peel candied, and the yolks of four eggs. Cut
the sweetmeats; well mix the whole; and bake in large cakes on tin
plates.


_Gingerbread Cakes or Nuts._

Melt half a pound of butter, and put to it half a pound of treacle, two
spoonfuls of brandy, and six ounces of coarse brown sugar. Mix all these
together in a saucepan, and let the whole be milk warm; then put it to a
pound and a quarter of flour, half an ounce of ginger, some orange-peel
finely grated, and as much candied orange as you like.


_Gingerbread Nuts._

A quarter of a pound of treacle, the same of flour, one ounce of butter,
a little brown sugar, and some ginger. Mix all together, and bake the
nuts on tins. Sweetmeat is a great addition.


_Gooseberries, to bottle._

Pick them in dry weather before they are too large; cut them at both
ends with scissars, that they may not be broken; put them into very dry
bottles, and fill them up to the neck with cold spring water. Put the
bottles up to their necks in water, in a large fish-kettle, set it on
the fire, and scald them. Take it off immediately when you perceive the
gooseberries change colour. Next day, if the bottles require filling,
have ready some cold spring water which has been boiled, and fill half
way up the neck of the bottles; then pour in a little sweet oil, just
sufficient to cover the water at the top of the bottle, and tie them
over with a bladder.


_Gooseberries in Jelly._

Make as much thick syrup as will cover the quantity of gooseberries you
intend to do; boil and skim it clear: set it by till almost cold. Have
ready some green hairy gooseberries, not quite ripe, and the skins of
which are still rather hard; cut off the remains of the flower at one
end, leaving the little stalk on at the other; with a small penknife
slit down the side, and with the point of the knife carefully remove the
seeds, leaving the pulp. Put the gooseberries into the syrup when
lukewarm; set it on the fire, shake it frequently, but do not let it
boil. Take it off, and let the gooseberries stand all night: with a
spoon push them under the syrup, or cover them with white paper. Next
day set them on the fire, scald them again, but they must not boil, and
shake them as before. Proceed in the same manner a third time. The jelly
to put them in must be made thus: Take three pints of the sharpest
gooseberries you can get--they must be of the white sort--to one pint of
water; and the quantity you make of this jelly must of course be
proportioned to that of the fruit. Boil them half an hour, till all the
flavour of the fruit is extracted; strain off the liquor; let it settle,
pour off the clear, and to each pint add one pound of double-refined
sugar. Boil it till it jellies, which you may see by putting a little
into a spoon or cup. Put a little of the jelly at the bottom of the pot
to prevent the gooseberries from sinking to the bottom; when it is set,
put in the rest of the gooseberries and jelly. When cold, cover with
brandy paper.


_Gooseberries, to preserve._

Pick the white gooseberries, stamp and strain them; then take the
largest of them when they just begin to turn; stone them, and to half a
pound of gooseberries put a pound of the finest sugar, and beat it very
fine. Take half a pound of the juice which you have strained; let it
stand to settle clear; and set it, with six spoonfuls of water, on a
quick fire; boil it as fast as you can; when you see the sugar, as it
boils, look clear, they are enough; which will be in less than a quarter
of an hour. Put them in glasses or pots, and paper them close. Next day,
if they are not jellied hard enough, set them for a day or two in a hot
stove, or in some warm place, but not in the sun; and, when jellied, put
the papers close to them after being wetted and dried with a cloth.


_Another way._

Stone your gooseberries, and as you stone them put them into water: then
weigh them, and to eight ounces of gooseberries take twelve ounces of
double-refined sugar. Put as much water as will make it a pretty thick
syrup, and when boiled and skimmed let it cool a little; then put the
gooseberries into the syrup, and boil them quick, till they look clear.
Take them out one by one, and put them into glass bottles; then heat
the syrup a little, strain it through muslin, pour it on the fruit, and
it will jelly when cold.


_Gooseberry Paste._

Pick off the eyes of the gooseberries, and put them in water scarcely
sufficient to cover them; let them boil, and rub them through a sieve.
Boil up a candy of sugar; put in your paste, and just scald it a little.
Add one pound of sugar to a pint of the paste, and put into pots to dry
in the stove: when candied over, turn them out on glasses.


_Grapes, to dry._

Scald bunches of grapes in water till they will peel; when they are
peeled and stoned, put them into fresh cold water, cover them up close,
and set them over the fire till they begin to green. Then take them out
of the water and put them to the syrup; after it has been well skimmed.
Cut a paper that will exactly fit the skillet, and let it rest upon the
syrup. Cover the skillet, and set it over a slow fire, till the grapes
look green; put them into a thicker syrup, and, when they are as green
as you wish them to be, take them out of the syrup, and let them dry in
the stove in bunches.


_Grapes, to preserve._

Stone your grapes, and peel off the skin; cover them and no more with
codling jelly, and let them boil fast up: then take them off the fire,
let them stand until they are cold, and boil them again till they become
green. Put a pound of sugar to a pint of the grapes, and let them boil
fast till they jelly.


_Greengages, to preserve._

Gather the plums before they are too ripe, and take as much pump water
as will cover them. Put to the water a quarter of a pound of
double-refined sugar, boil it, and let it stand to be cold. Prick the
greengages with a large needle in four places to the stone; wrap each of
them lightly in a vine-leaf, and set them over a slow fire to green. Do
so for three days running; on the last day, put in a spoonful of old
verjuice or lemon-juice, and a small lump of alum. Next day draw them,
and, after taking off the vine-leaves, put them in a thick syrup, first
boiled and cleared. Finish them by degrees, by heating them a little
every day till they look clear.


_Another way._

Stone and split the fruit without taking off the skin. Weigh an equal
quantity of sugar and fruit, and strew part of the sugar over the
greengages, having first laid them on dishes, with the hollow part
uppermost. Take the kernels from the stones, peel and blanch them. The
next day, pour off the syrup from the fruit, and boil it very gently
with the other sugar eight minutes. Skim it, and add the fruit and
kernels. Simmer the whole till quite clear, taking off any scum that
rises. Put the fruit, one by one, into small pots, and pour the syrup
and kernels to it.


_Hartshorn Jelly._

Boil one pound of hartshorn shavings over a very gentle fire, in two
quarts of water, till it is reduced to one quart; let it settle, and
strain it off. Put to this liquor the whites of eight or nine eggs, and
four or five of their shells, broken very fine, the whites well beaten,
the juice of seven or eight lemons, or part oranges; sweeten with the
best sugar, and add above a pint of Rhenish or Lisbon wine. Mix all
these well together, and boil over a quick fire, stirring all the time
with a whisk. As soon as it boils up, strain it through a flannel bag,
throwing it backward and forward till it is perfectly clear. Boil
lemon-peel in it to flavour it. The last time of passing it through the
bag, let it drip into the moulds or glasses.


_Hedgehog._

Blanch two quarts of the best almonds in cold water; beat them very fine
in a mortar, with a little canary wine and orange-flower water; make
them into a stiff paste; then beat in the yolks of twelve eggs, leaving
out five whites; add a pint of good cream; sweeten to your taste, and
put in half a pound of good butter melted. Set it on a slow fire, and
keep it constantly stirring till it is stiff enough. Make it up into the
form of a hedgehog; stick it full of blanched almonds, slit and stuck up
like the bristles; put it in a dish, and make hartshorn jelly, and put
to it, or cold cream, sweetened with a glass of white wine, and the
juice of a Seville orange; plump two currants for the eyes.


_Ice and Cream._

Mix a little cream and new milk together in a dish; put in runnet, as
for cheesecakes; stir it together. Pour in some canary wine and sugar.
Then put the whites of three eggs and a little rose-water to a pint of
cream; whip it up to a froth with a whisk, and, as it rises, put it upon
the runnet and milk. Lay in here and there bunches of preserved
barberries, raspberry jam, or any thing of that sort you please. Whip up
more froth, and put over the whole.


_Lemon Ice._

Grate the peel of two lemons on sugar, and put it into a bowl, with the
juice of four lemons squeezed, and well stir it about; then sweeten it
with clarified sugar to your taste, and add to it three spoonfuls of
water. Throw over a little salt on the ice; put the ice in the bottom of
the pail; put the ice-pot on it, and cover it also with ice. Turn the
pot continually, and in about a minute or two open it, and continue to
stir it till it is frozen enough; after this stir every now and then.


_Iceing for Cakes._

Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth; put in by degrees four
ounces of fine sugar, beaten and sifted very fine, with as much gum as
will lie on a sixpence. Beat it up for half an hour, and lay it over
your cakes the thickness of a straw.


_Another._

Take the whites of four eggs and a pound of double-refined sugar,
pounded and sifted; beat the eggs a little; put the sugar in, and whip
it as fast as possible; then wash your cake with rose-water, and lay the
iceing on; set it in the oven with the lid down till it is hard.


_Jaunemange._

Steep two ounces of isinglass for an hour in a pint of boiling water;
put to it three quarters of a pint of white wine, the juice of two
oranges and one lemon, the peel of a lemon cut very fine, and the yolks
of eight eggs. Sweeten and boil it all together; strain it in a mould,
and, when cold, turn it out. Make it the day before you use it.


_Another way._

One ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a good half pint of water, the
juice of two small lemons, the peel of half a lemon, the yolks of four
eggs, well beaten, half a pound of sugar, half a pint of white wine: mix
these carefully together, and stir them into the isinglass jelly over
the fire. Let it simmer a few minutes; when a little cool, pour it into
your moulds, taking care to wet them first; turn it out the next day.


_Coloured Jelly, to mix with or garnish other Jelly._

Pare four lemons as thin as possible; put the rinds into a pint and a
half of water; let them lie twelve hours: then squeeze the lemons; put
the water and juice together; add three quarters of a pound of the best
sugar, but if the lemons are large, it will require more sugar. When the
sugar is quite melted, beat up the whites of six new-laid eggs to a
froth; mix all together, and strain it through a hair sieve into a
saucepan; set it on a slow fire, and keep it stirred till it is near
boiling and grows thick. Then take it off, and keep stirring it the same
way till it cools. The colouring is to be steeped in a cup of water, and
then strained into the other ingredients. Care must be taken to stir it
always one way. The eggs are the last thing put in; the whole must be
well mixed with a whisk till thoroughly incorporated.


_Gloucester Jelly._

Of rice, sago, pearl barley, candied eringo root, of each one ounce; add
two quarts of water; simmer it over the fire till it is reduced to one
quart; strain it. This will produce a strong jelly; a little to be
dissolved in white wine or warm milk, and to be taken three or four
times a day.


_Another way._

Pearl barley, whole rice, sago, and candied eringo root, of each one
ounce, and half an ounce of hartshorn shavings, put into two quarts of
spring water; simmer very gently till reduced to one quart, and then rub
it through a fine sieve. Half a coffee-cup to be taken with an equal
quantity of milk in a morning fasting, and lie an hour after it, and to
be taken twice more in the day. You may then put a small quantity of
wine or brandy instead of milk.


_Lemon Jelly._

Put the juice of four lemons, and the rind pared as thin as possible,
into a pint of spring water, and let it stand for half an hour. Take the
whites of five eggs; sweeten, and strain through a flannel bag. Set it
over a slow fire, and stir it one way till it begins to thicken. You may
then put it in glasses or dishes, and colour with turmeric.


_Nourishing Jelly._

Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a quart of port wine, with some
cinnamon and sugar: sweeten to your taste with the best white sugar. It
must not be suffered to boil, and will take two or three hours to
dissolve, as the fire must be very slow: stir it often to prevent its
boiling. It must be taken cold.


_Orange Jelly._ No. 1.

Squeeze the juice of nine or ten China oranges and one Seville orange
through a sieve into an earthen pan, adding a quarter of a pound of
double-refined sugar. Take an ounce and a half, good weight, of the best
isinglass, the peel of seven of the oranges grated, and the bitter
squeezed out through a towel; boil this peel in the isinglass, which
must be put over the fire in about a pint of water just to melt it. Stir
it all the time it is on the fire; strain and pour it to the juice of
the oranges, which boil together for about ten minutes. When you take it
off, strain it again, and put it into moulds.


_Orange Jelly._ No. 2.

Set on the fire one ounce of isinglass in a quarter of a pint of warm
water till it is entirely dissolved. Take the juice of nine oranges;
strain off clear half a pint of mountain wine, sweetened with lump sugar
to your taste, and colour it with a very little cochineal. Boil all
together for a few minutes, and strain it through a flannel bag, till it
is quite clear: pour it to the peels, and let it stand till it is a
stiff jelly.


_Orange Jelly._ No. 3.

One ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a pint of water, the juice of six
China oranges, a bit of the rind, pared thin, sweetened to the taste,
scalded, and strained. You may scoop the rind and fill the oranges, and,
when cold, halve or quarter them.


_Restorative Jelly._

Take two pounds of knuckle of veal and a pound and a half of lean beef;
set it over the fire with four pints of water; cover it close, and stew
it till reduced to half. While stewing, put in half an ounce of fine
isinglass, picked small, a little salt, and mace. Strain it off clear,
and when cold take off every particle of fat. Warm it in hot water, and
not in a pan. Take a tea-cupful twice a day.


_Strawberry Jelly._

Boil two ounces of isinglass in a quarter of a pint of water over a
gentle fire, and skim it well. Mash a quart of scarlet strawberries in
an earthen pan with a wooden spoon; then put in the isinglass, some
powdered sugar, and the juice of a good lemon--this quantity is for six
small moulds; if you do not find it enough, add a little more water;
then run it through a tamis, changing it two or three times.


_Wine Jelly._

On two ounces of isinglass and one ounce of hartshorn shavings pour one
pint of boiling water; let it stand a quarter of an hour covered close;
then add two quarts of water, and boil it well till the isinglass is
dissolved; add a pint of dry wine, sugar to your taste, four lemons, and
the whites of seven eggs well beaten. Boil it quick, and keep it
stirring all the time; then pour it through a jelly-bag, and strain it
two or three times till quite clear.


_Lemons or Seville Oranges, to preserve._

Take fine large lemons or Seville oranges; rasp the outside skin very
fine and thin; put them in cold water, and let them lie all night. Put
them in fresh water, and set them on the fire in plenty of water, and,
when they have had two or three boils, take them off, and let them lie
all night in cold water. Then put them into fresh water, and let them
boil till they are so tender that you can run a straw through them. If
you think the bitterness not sufficiently out, put them again into cold
water, and let them lie all night. Lemons need not soak so long as
oranges. To four oranges or lemons put two pounds of the best sugar and
a pint of water; boil and skim it clear, and when it is cold put in the
oranges, and let them lie four or five days in cold syrup; then give
them a boil every day till they look clear. Make some pippin or codlin
jelly thus: to a pint of either put one pound of sugar, and let it boil
till it jellies; then heat the oranges, and put them to the jelly and
half their syrup; boil them very fast a quarter of an hour, and, just
before you take them off the fire, put in the juice of two or three
lemons; put them in pots or porringers, that will hold them single, and
that will admit jelly enough. To four oranges or lemons, put a pound and
a half of jelly and the same quantity of syrup, but boiled together, as
directed for the oranges. Malaga lemons are the best; they are done in
the same manner as the oranges, only that they do not require so much
soaking.


_Lemon Caudle._

Take a pint of water, the juice of two lemons, the rind of half a lemon
pared as thin as possible from the white, a blade of mace, and some
bread shred very small; sweeten to your taste. Set the whole on the fire
to boil; when boiled enough, which you will perceive by the bread being
soft, beat three or four eggs well together till they are as thin as
water; then take a little out of the skillet and put to the eggs, and so
proceed till the eggs are hot; then put them to the rest, stirring well
to prevent curdling.


_Lemon or Chocolate Drops._

Take half a pound of fine-sifted double-refined sugar; grate into it the
yellow rind of a fair large lemon; whip the white of an egg to a froth,
with which wet the sugar till it is as stiff as good working paste. Drop
it as you like on paper, with a little sugar first sifted on it; bake in
a very slow oven.

For chocolate drops, grate about an ounce of chocolate as you did of
lemon-peel, which must then be left out.


_Lemon Puffs._

Into half a pound of double-refined sugar, beat fine and sifted, grate
the yellow rind of a large lemon. Whip up the white of an egg to a
froth, and wet it with the froth, till it is as stiff as a good working
paste. Lay the puffs on papers, and bake them in a very slow oven.


_Lemon Tart._

A quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and beaten with a little sweet
cream; put in half a pound of sugar, the yolks only of eight eggs, half
a pound of butter, the peel of two lemons grated. Beat all together fine
in a mortar; lay puff paste about the dish; bake it half an hour.


_Lemon Solid._

Put the juice of a lemon, with the rind grated, into a dish: sweeten it
to your taste; boil a quart of cream till it is reduced to three half
pints; pour it upon the lemon, and let it stand to cool. It should be
made the day before it is used.


_Syrup of Lemons._

To three pounds of the best sugar finely beaten put one pint of lemon
juice, set by to settle, and then poured off clear: put it in a silver
tankard, and set that in a pot of boiling water. Let this boil till the
sugar is quite dissolved, and when cold bottle it; take care that in the
boiling not the least water gets in. Skim off any little scum that
rises.


_Macaroons._

Take half a pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, and half a pound of
finely pounded lump sugar. Beat up the whites of two eggs to a froth;
mix the sugar and almonds together; add the eggs by degrees; and, when
they are well mixed, drop a spoonful on wafer-paper. They must be baked
as soon as made in a slow oven.


_Citron Marmalade._

Boil the citron very tender, cutting off all the yellow rind; beat the
white very well in a wooden bowl; shred the rind, and to a pound of
pulp and rind take a pound and a half of sugar, and half a pint of
water. When it boils, put in the citron, and boil it very fast till it
is clear; put in half a pint of pippin jelly, and boil it till it
jellies very well; then add the lemon-juice, and put it into your pots
or glasses.


_Cherry Marmalade._

Take eight pounds of cherries, not too ripe; stone them; take two pounds
of sugar beaten, and the juice of four quarts of currants, red and
white. Put the cherries into a pan, with half a pound of the sugar, over
a very hot fire; shake them frequently; when there is a good deal of
liquor, put in the rest of the sugar, skimming it well and boiling it as
fast as possible, till your syrup is almost wasted; then put in your
currant juice, and let it boil quick till it jellies; keep stirring it
with care; then put it in pots.


_Another way._

Take five pounds of cherries stoned and two pounds of loaf sugar; shred
your cherries, wet your sugar with the juice that runs from them, then
put the cherries into the sugar, and boil them pretty fast, till they
become a marmalade. When cold, put it into glasses for use.


_Orange Marmalade._ No. 1.

Pare your oranges very thin, and lay them in water two or three days,
changing the water twice a day; then take them out, and dry them with a
linen cloth. Take their weight in sugar beat fine; cut the oranges in
halves, take out the pulp, pick out the seeds, and take off the skins
carefully. Boil the rinds very tender in a linen cloth; cut them in
strips whilst hot, and lay them in the pan in which you design to boil
the marmalade. Put a layer of sugar, and a layer of orange rinds,
alternately, till all are in; let them stand till the sugar is quite
dissolved; add the juice of a lemon; set them on a stove, and let them
boil fast till nearly done; then put in the pulp, and boil them again
till quite done. Take them off, and add the juice of a lemon; let them
stand in pots for a few days, and they will be fit for eating.

Lemon marmalade may be done in the same way, only with a much greater
quantity of sugar, or sugar mixed with sugar-candy.


_Orange Marmalade._ No. 2.

Take six dozen Seville oranges; pare thin three dozen, the other three
rasp thin, and keep the parings and raspings separate. Cut all the six
dozen in halves; squeeze out the juice, but not too hard; scoop out the
pulp with a tea-spoon; pick out the seeds, and keep the pulp. Boil the
skins, changing the water two or three times, to take off the
bitterness, till they are tender enough for a straw to pierce them. When
they are boiled, scoop out and throw away the stringy part; boil the
parings three times in different waters; beat the boiled skins very fine
in a marble mortar; beat the boiled rinds in the same manner. The pulp,
skin, rinds, and juice, must be all weighed, but not yet mixed; for each
pound in the whole take one pound of loaf sugar, which must first be
mixed with a little water, boiled alone, well skimmed, and thoroughly
cleared. The pulp, skins, and juice, must then be put into this syrup,
well mixed, and boiled together for about half an hour; after which put
in the rasped rinds, beaten as above directed, and boil all together for
a short time. Put the marmalade into small pots, and cover with brandy
paper.


_Orange Marmalade._ No. 3.

Take a dozen of Seville oranges and their weight in sugar finely
powdered. Pare the oranges as thin as possible; the first peel is not
used in marmalade; it is better to grate off the outer peel and put them
in water. Let them lie two or three days, changing the water every day;
then cut the oranges in quarters, and take out all the pulp; boil the
peels in several waters, till they are quite tender and not bitter. Then
put to the sugar half a pint of water, and boil it to a syrup, till it
draws as fine as a hair; put in the peels sliced very thin, and boil
them gently about a quarter of an hour. While the peels are boiling,
pick out all the seeds and skins from the pulp; then put the pulp to the
orange-peel; let it boil till it is clear; put a little in a saucer, and
when it jellies it is done enough.


_Scotch Orange Marmalade._

Weigh the oranges, and take an equal weight of sugar; wipe the fruit
with a wet cloth; grate them, cut them across, and squeeze them through
a hair sieve. Boil the skins tender, so that the head of a pin will
easily pierce them; take them off the fire, squeeze out the water,
scrape the pulp from them, cut the skins into very thin chips, and let
them boil until they are very transparent. Then put in the juice and so
much of the gratings as you choose; let it all boil together till it
will jelly, which you will know by letting a little of it cool in a
saucer.


_Red Quince Marmalade._ No. 1.

Take one pound and a half of quinces, two pounds of sugar, a pint of
water, and a quarter of a pint of the juice of quinces; boil it tender,
and skim it well. When done enough, put into it a quarter of a pint of
the juice of barberries. Skim it clear as long as any thing rises.


_Red Quince Marmalade._ No. 2.

Scald as many fine large quinces as you would use, and grate as many
small ones as will make a quart of juice, or according to the quantity
you want. Let this settle; after you have pressed it through a coarse
cloth, strain it through a jelly-bag, that what you use may be perfectly
clear. To every pint of this liquor put a pound and a half of sugar, and
a pound and a half of the scalded quinces, which must be pared and cored
before they are weighed. Set it at first on a pretty brisk fire; when it
begins to boil, slacken the fire; and when it begins to turn red cover
it close. As soon as it is of a fine bright red, take it off, as it
turns of a blackish muddy colour in a moment if not carefully watched. A
small bit of cochineal, tied up in a bit of rag and boiled with it,
gives it a beautiful colour. Before you have finished boiling, add
barberry juice, to your judgment, which improves the flavour.


_Red Quince Marmalade._ No. 3.

Pare the quinces, quarter them, and cut out all the hard part; to a
pound of quinces put a pound and a half of sugar and half a pound of the
juice of barberries, boiled with water, as you do jelly or other fruit,
boiling it very fast, and break it very small; when it is all to pieces
and jellied, it is enough. If you wish the marmalade to be of a green
colour, put a few black bullaces to the barberries when you make the
jelly.


_White Quince Marmalade._

Pare and quarter the quinces, and put as much water as will cover them;
boil them all to pieces to make jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag.
Take a pound of quinces, quarter them, and cut out all the hard parts;
pare them, and to a pound of fruit put a pound and a half of finely
beaten sugar and half a pint of water. Let it boil till very clear; keep
stirring it, and it will break as you wish it. When the sugar is boiled
very thick, almost to a candy, put in half a pint of jelly, and let it
boil very fast till it becomes a jelly. Take it off the fire, and put in
juice of lemon; skim it well, and put it into pots or glasses.


_Marchpane._

Blanch one pound of almonds as white as you can; take three quarters of
a pound of fine white sugar well pounded; beat them up together with a
little rose-water, to prevent the almonds from oiling. Take out the
mixture, work it like paste, make it into cakes, lay them on wafers, and
bake them. Boil rose-water and sugar till it becomes a syrup; when the
cakes are almost done, spread this syrup all over them, and strew them
with comfits.


_Another way._

Take a pound of almonds finely beaten, and a pound of fine sugar, sifted
through a hair sieve; mix these together; then add the whites of four
eggs, beaten up to a froth; mix the whole well together, and scald it
over your fire, still keeping it well-stirred, to prevent burning. Let
it stand till cold; afterwards roll it on papers, and bake it.


_Marrow Pasties._

Make the pasties small, the length of a finger; put in large pieces of
marrow, first dipped in egg, and seasoned with sugar, beaten cloves,
mace, and nutmeg. Strew a few currants on the marrow, and either bake or
fry them.


_Melons or Cucumbers, to preserve._

Cut and pare a thoroughly ripe melon into thick slices; put them into
water till they become mouldy; then put them into fresh water over the
fire to coddle, not to boil. Make a good syrup; when properly skimmed,
and while boiling, put your melon in to boil for a short time. The syrup
should be boiled every day for a fortnight; do not put it to the melon
till a little cold: the last time you boil the syrup, put it into a
muslin bag; add one ounce of ginger pounded and the juice and rind of
two lemons; but, if a large melon, allow an additional ounce of ginger.


_Melon Compote._

Cut a good melon as for eating; peel it, carefully taking off the green
part entirely, but not more. Take out all the inside, and steep the
slices for ten days in the best vinegar, keeping it well covered. Take
out the slices, and put them over the fire in fresh vinegar; let them
stew till quite tender. Then drain and dry them in a cloth; stick bits
of cloves and cinnamon in them; lay them in a jar, and make a syrup, and
pour over them. Tie the jar close down. This kind of sweetmeat is eaten
in Geneva with roast meat, and is much better than currant jelly or
apple sauce. The melon must be in good order, and within three or four
days of being ripe enough to eat.


_Mince Meat._ No. 1.

One pound of beef, one pound and a half of suet, one pound of currants,
half a pound of chopped raisins, one pound of sugar, if moist, half a
pint of brandy, a pint of raisin wine, mace, cinnamon, allspice, and
nutmeg, pounded together. Sweetmeats, candied lemon, and fresh peel, may
be added, when used for baking.


_Mince Meat._ No. 2.

One pound of beef suet, one pound of apples peeled and cored, one pound
of raisins stoned and chopped very fine, the same of currants well
picked, half a pound of sugar made very fine, a glass of brandy, a glass
of wine, half an ounce of allspice, the juice of two large lemons, the
rind chopped as fine as possible: add sweetmeats to your taste.


_Mince Meat._ No. 3.

Take one pound of beef and two pounds of suet shred fine, two pounds of
currants, one pound of the best raisins stoned, but not chopped, three
quarters of a pound of sugar, four fine pippins or russetings chopped
fine, some grated lemon-peel, half an ounce of cinnamon, the same of
nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of mace, wine and brandy to your taste,
and whatever sweetmeats you please.


_Mince Meat without Meat._ No. 1.

Twelve pounds of currants, very well washed, dried, and picked, six
pounds of raisins stoned and chopped very small, a quarter of a pound of
cloves, three ounces of mace, and two of nutmegs, pounded very fine, the
rind of three large fresh lemons pared very thin and chopped fine, six
pounds of powder sugar, a quart of sack, a quart of brandy, one hundred
golden rennets, pared, cored, and chopped small: mix all well together,
and let it stand two days, stirring it from the bottom twice or thrice a
day. Add three whole dried preserved oranges and an equal weight of
dried citron. Mix in the suet a day or two before you use it. Add
lemon-juice to your taste, and that only to the quantity you mean to
bake at once. Without suet these ingredients will keep for six months.

_Mince Meat without Meat._ No. 2.

To make a mince meat that will keep for five or six years, take four
pounds of raisins of the sun, stoned and chopped very fine, five pounds
of currants, three pounds of beef suet shred very fine, the crumb of a
half-quartern loaf, three pounds of loaf-sugar, the peel of four lemons
grated, half an ounce of nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same
of cloves, and one pint of good brandy. When you make your pies, add
about one third of apple chopped fine; and to each pie put six or eight
small slices of citron and preserved orange-peel, with a table-spoonful
of sweet wine, ratafia, and a piece of a large lemon mixed together.


_Mince Meat without Meat._ No. 3.

Three pounds of suet, three pounds of apples, pared and cored, three
pounds of currants washed, picked, and dried, one pound and a half of
sugar powdered, three quarters of a pound of preserved orange-peel, six
ounces of citron, the juice of six lemons, one pint of sack and one of
brandy, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of nutmeg, and of cloves
and cinnamon half a quarter of an ounce each.


_Lemon Mince Meat._

Cut three large lemons, and squeeze out the juice; boil the peels
together with the pulp till it will pound in a mortar; put to it one
pound of beef suet, finely chopped, currants and lump sugar, one pound
of each; mix it all well together; then add the juice with a glass of
brandy. Put sweetmeats to your taste.


_Mirangles._

Put half a pint of syrup into a stewpan, and boil it to what is called
blow; then take the whites of three eggs, put them in another copper
pan, and whisk them very strong. When your sugar is boiled, rub it
against the sides of the stewpan with a table-spoon; when you see the
sugar change, quickly mix the whites of eggs with it, for if you are not
quick your sugar will turn to powder. When you have mixed it as light as
possible, put in the rind of one lemon; stir it as little as possible:
take a board, about one foot wide and eighteen inches long, and put a
sheet of paper on it. With your table-spoon drop your batter in the
shape of half an egg: sift a little powdered sugar over them before you
put them in the oven. Let your oven be of a moderate heat; watch them
attentively, and let them rise, and just let the outside be a little
hard, but not the least brown; the inside must be moist. Take them off
with a knife, and just put about a tea-spoonful of jam in the middle of
them; then put two of them together, and they will be in the shape of an
egg; you must handle them very gently.


_Moss._

Take as much white starch as sugar, and sift it; colour some of the
sugar with turmeric, some with blue powder, some with chocolate, and
some with the juice of spinach; and wet each by itself with a solution
of gum-dragon. Strain and rub it through a hair sieve, and let them dry
before you touch them.


_Muffins._

Mix flour in a pan, with warm new milk and water, yest and salt,
according to your judgment. Beat it up well with a wooden spoon till it
is a stiff batter; then set it near the fire to rise, which will be in
about an hour. It must then be well beaten down, and put to rise again,
and, when very light, made into muffins, and baked in flat round irons
made for the purpose. The iron must be made hot, and kept so with coals
under it. Take out the batter with a spoon, and drop it on a little
flour sprinkled lightly on a table. Then lay them on a trencher with a
little flour; turn the trencher round to shape them, assisting with your
hand if they need it. Then bake them; when one side is done, turn them
with a muffin knife, and bake the other.


_Oranges, to preserve._

Make a hole at the stalk end; take out all the seeds, but no pulp;
squeeze out the juice, which must be saved to put to them, taking great
care you do not loosen the pulp. Put them into an earthen pan, with
water; boil them till the water is bitter, changing it three times, and,
in the last water put a little salt, and boil them till they are very
tender, but not to break. Take them out and drain them; take two pounds
of sugar and a quart of pippin jelly; boil it to a syrup, skim it very
clear, and then put in your oranges. Set them over a gentle fire till
they boil very tender and clear; then put to them the juice that you
took from them; prick them with a knife that the syrup may penetrate. If
you cut them in halves, lay the skin side upwards, and put them up and
cover them with the syrup.

Lemons and citrons may be done in the same way.


_Whole Oranges, to preserve._

Take six oranges, rasp them very thin, put them in water as you do them,
and let them lie all night. In the morning boil them till they are
tender, and then put them into clear water, and let them remain so two
or three days. Take the oranges, and cut a hole in the top, and pick out
the seeds, but not the meat; then take three pounds of fine sugar, and
make a thin syrup, and, when boiled and skimmed, put in your oranges,
and let them boil till they are clear. Take them out, and let them stand
three or four days; then boil them again till the syrup is rather thick.
Put half a pound of sugar and half a pint of apple jelly to every
orange, and let it boil until it jellies; put them into pots, and place
any substance to keep down the orange in the pot till it cools.


_Seville Oranges, to preserve._

Put Seville oranges in spring water, where let them remain three or four
days, shifting the water every day. Take them out, and grate off a
little of the outside rind very carefully without touching the white,
only to take away a little of the bitter; make a thin syrup, and, when
it is sufficiently cleared and boiled, take it off, and, when it is only
warm, put the oranges in and just simmer them over the fire. Put them
and the syrup into a pan, and in a day or two set them again on the
fire, and just scald them. Repeat this a day afterwards; then boil a
thick syrup; take the oranges out of the thin one, and lay them on a
cloth to drain, covered over with another; then put them to the thick
syrup, as you before did to the thin one, putting them into it just hot,
and giving them a simmer. Repeat this in a few days if you think they
are not sufficiently done. The insides must be left in.


_Butter Orange._

Take a pint of the juice of oranges and eight new-laid eggs beaten well
together; mix and season them to your taste with loaf-sugar; then set it
on the fire; keep stirring till it becomes thick; put in a bit of butter
of the size of a walnut, stirring it while on the fire; then dish it up.


_Candied Orange._

Take twelve oranges, the palest you can get; take out the pulp, pick out
the seeds and skins; let the outsides soak in water with a little salt
all night: then boil them in a good quantity of spring water, till
tender, which will be about nine or ten hours. Drain and cut them in
very thin slices; add them to the pulp, and to every pound take one
pound and a half of sugar beaten fine. Boil them together till clear,
which will be in about three quarters of an hour.


_Orange Cream._

Grate the peels of four Seville oranges into a pint of water, then
squeeze the juice into the water. Well beat the yolks of four eggs; put
all together; and sweeten with double-refined sugar. Press the whole
hard through a strong strainer; set it on the fire, and stir it
carefully one way, till it is as thick as cream.


_Orange Jelly._

Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a pint of water; add a pint of the
juice of four China oranges, two Seville oranges, and two lemons. Grate
the peel of them all, and sweeten to your palate.


_Orange Paste._

Pick all the meat out of the oranges, and boil the rinds in water till
they are very tender. Cut off all the outside, and beat the pulp in a
mortar till it is very fine. Shred the outside in long thin bits, and
mix it with the meat, when you have taken out all the seeds. To every
pint of juice put half a pint of the pulp, and mix all together. Then
boil up a candy of sugar; put in your paste, and just scald it; add a
good pound of sugar to a pint of the paste; put it into a broad earthen
pan, set it on a stove, let it remain till it candies; skim it off with
a spoon, drop it on glasses to dry, and as, often as it candies keep
skimming it.


_Another way._

To six ounces of sugar put six ounces at least of fine flour, mixed with
a little orange-flower water, but no eggs, as they would make it too
dry. Moisten with water, taking care that it is neither too hard nor too
soft. Rub the pan with a little fine oil.


_Orange Puffs._

Pare off the yellow peel of a large Seville orange, but be careful not
to touch the white; boil it in three several waters to take out the
bitterness; it will require about three hours' boiling. Beat it very
fine in a marble mortar, with four ounces of fine lump sugar, four
ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of six eggs, four good spoonfuls of
sweet thick cream, and one spoonful of orange-flower water. Beat all
these ingredients so well together that you cannot discern a particle of
the orange-peel. Roll out your puff paste as thin as possible, lay it in
pattypans, fill them with the ingredients, but do not cover them. Bake
them in an oven no hotter than for cheesecakes; but for frying you must
make them with crust without butter, and fry them in lard.


_Another way._

Take one pound of single-refined sugar sifted and the rind of an orange
grated, a little gum-dragon, and beaten almonds rubbed through a sieve.
Mix all these well together; wet it into paste, and beat it in a mortar;
add whites of eggs whipped to a frost.


_Orange Sponge._

Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in one pint of water; strain it through
a sieve; add the juice of two China oranges and some lemon; sugar it to
your taste. Whisk it till it looks like a sponge; put it into a mould,
and turn it out.


_Orange and Lemon Syrup._

To each pint of juice, which must be put into a large pan, throw a pound
and a half of sugar, broken into small lumps, which must be stirred
every day till dissolved, first carefully taking off the scum. Let the
peel of about six oranges be put into twelve quarts, but it must be
taken out when the sugar is melted, and you are ready to bottle it.
Proceed in the same way with lemon, only taking two pounds of sugar to a
pint of juice.


_Oranges for a Tart._

Pare some oranges as thin as possible; boil them till they are soft. Cut
and core double the number of good pippins, and boil them to pap, but so
as that they do not lose their colour; strain the pulp, and add one
pound of sugar to every pint. Take out the orange-pulp, cut the peel,
make it very soft by boiling, and bruise it in a mortar in the juice of
lemons and oranges; then boil it to a proper consistence with the apple
and orange-pulp and half a pint of rose-water.


_Orange Tart._

Take eight Seville oranges; cut them in halves, pick out all the seeds;
then pick out all the orange as free from the white skins as possible.
Take the seeds out of the cores, and boil them till tender and free from
bitter. When done enough, dry them very well from the water, and beat
five of the orange-peels in a marble mortar till quite smooth. Then take
the weight of the oranges in double-refined sugar, beaten fine, and
sifted; mix it with the juice, and pound all well in the mortar; the
peel that was left unbeaten you slice into your tart. You may keep out
as much sugar as will ice the tart. Make the crust for it with twelve
ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, melted in water, and the yolks of
two eggs, well beaten and mixed into your flour. Be sure to prick the
crust well before it goes into the oven.

Half this quantity makes a pretty-sized tart.


_Another way._

Take as many oranges as you require. Cut the peel extremely thin from
the white, and shred it small. Clear the oranges entirely from the
white, and cut them in small pieces like an apple, taking out the seeds.
Sweeten as required, and bake in a nice paste. In winter, apples may be
mixed.


_Panada._

Take oatmeal, clean picked and well beaten; steep it in water all night;
strain and boil it in a pipkin, with some currants, a blade or two of
mace, and a little salt. When it is well boiled, take it off; and put in
the yolks of two or three new-laid eggs, beaten with rose-water. Set it
on a gentle fire, and stir it that it may not curdle. Sweeten with
sugar, and put in a little nutmeg.


_Pancakes._ No. 1.

Mix a quart of milk with as much flour as will make it into a thin
batter; break in six eggs; put in a little salt, a glass of raisin wine,
a spoonful of beaten ginger; mix all well together; fry and sprinkle
them with sugar.

In making pancakes or fritters, always make your batter an hour before
you begin frying, that the flour may have time to mix thoroughly. Never
fry them till they are wanted, or they will eat flat and insipid. Add a
little lemon-juice or peel.


_Pancakes._ No. 2.

To a pint of cream put three spoonfuls of sack, half a pint of flour,
six eggs, but only three whites; grate in some nutmeg, very little salt,
a quarter of a pound of butter melted, and some sugar. After the first
pancake, lay them on a dry pan, very thin, one upon another, till they
are finished, before the fire; then lay a dish on the top, and turn them
over, so that the brown side is uppermost. You may add or diminish the
quantity in proportion. This is a pretty supper dish.


_Pancakes._ No. 3.

Break three eggs, put four ounces and a half of flour, and a little
milk, beat it into a smooth batter; then add by degrees as much milk as
will make it the thickness of good cream. Make the frying-pan hot, and
to each pancake put a bit of butter nearly the size of a walnut; when
melted, pour in the batter to cover the bottom of the pan; make them of
the thickness of half a crown. The above will do for apple fritters, by
adding one spoonful more flour; peel and cut your apples in thick
slices, take out the core, dip them in the batter, and fry them in hot
lard; put them in a sieve to drain; grate some loaf sugar over them.


_French Pancakes._

Beat the yolks of eight eggs, which sweeten to your taste, nearly a
table-spoonful of flour, a little brandy, and half a pint of cream. They
are not to be turned in the frying-pan. When half done, take the whites
beaten to a strong froth, and put them over the pancakes. When these are
done enough, roll them over, sugar them, and brown them with a
salamander.


_Grillon's Pancakes._

Two soup-ladles of flour, three yolks of eggs, and four whole ones, two
tea-spoonfuls of orange-flower water, six ratafia cakes, a pint of
double cream; to be stirred together, and sugar to be shaken over every
pancake, which is not to be turned--about thirty in number.


_Quire of Paper Pancakes._

Take to a pint of cream eight eggs, leaving out two whites, three
spoonfuls of fine flour, three of sack, one of orange-flower water, a
little sugar, a grated nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of butter melted in
the cream. Mix a little of the cream with flour, and so proceed by
degrees that it may be smooth: then beat all well together. Butter the
pan for the first pancake, and let them run as thin as possible to be
whole. When one side is coloured, it is enough; take them carefully out
of the pan, lay them as even on each other as possible; and keep them
near the fire till they are all fried. The quantity here given makes
twenty.


_Rice Pancakes._

In a quart of milk mix by degrees three spoonfuls of flour of rice, and
boil it till it is as thick as pap. As it boils, stir in half a pound of
good butter and a nutmeg grated. Pour it into a pan, and, when cold, put
in by degrees three or four spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, some
sugar, and nine eggs, well beaten up. Mix them all together, and fry
them in a small pan, with a little piece of butter.


_Paste._

Take half a pound of good fresh butter, and work it to a cream in a
basin. Stir into it a quarter of a pound of fine sifted sugar, and beat
it together: then work with it as much fine flour as will make a paste
fit to roll out for tarts, cheesecakes, &c.


_Paste for baking or frying._

Take a proper quantity of flour for the paste you wish to make, and mix
it with equal quantities of powdered sugar and flour; melt some butter
very smooth, with some grated lemon-peel and an egg, well beat; mix
into a firm paste; bake or fry it.


_Paste for Pies._

French roll dough, rolled out with less than half the quantity of butter
generally used, makes a wholesome and excellent paste for pies.


_Paste for raised Pies._

Put four pounds of butter into a kettle of water; add three quarters of
a pound of rendered beef suet; boil it two or three minutes; pour it on
twelve pounds of flour, and work it into a good stiff paste. Pull it
into lumps to cool. Raise the pie, using the same proportions for all
raised pies according to the size required: bake in a hot oven.


_Another way._

Take one pound of flour, and seven ounces of butter, put into boiling
water till it dissolves: wet the flour lightly with it. Roll your paste
out thick and not too stiff; line your tins with it; put in the meat,
and cover over the top of the tin with the same paste.

This paste is best made over-night.


_Paste for Tarts._

To half a pound of the best flour add the same quantity of butter, two
spoonfuls of white sugar, the yolks of two eggs and one white; make it
into a paste with cold water.


_Paste for Tarts in pans._

Take a pound of flour, the same of butter, with five yolks of eggs, the
white of one, and as much water as will wet it into a pretty soft paste.
Roll it up, and put it into your pan.


_Paste for very small Tartlets._

Take an egg or more, and mix it with some flour; make a little ball as
big as a tea-cup; work it with your hands till it is quite hard and
stiff; then break off a little at a time as you want it, keeping the
rest of the ball under cover of a basin, for fear of its hardening or
drying too much. Roll it out extremely thin; cut it out, and make it up
in what shape you please, and harden them by the fire, or in an oven in
a manner cold. It does for almonds or cocoa-nut boiled up in syrup rich,
or any thing that is a dry mixture, or does not want baking.


_Potato Paste._

Take two thirds of potato and one of ground rice, as much butter rubbed
in as will moisten it sufficiently to roll, which must be done with a
little flour. The crust is best made thin and in small tarts. The
potatoes should be well boiled and quite cold.


_Rice Paste._

Whole rice, boiled in new milk, with a reasonable quantity of butter, to
such a consistency as to roll out when cold. The board must be floured
while rolling.


_Another way._

Beat up a quarter of a pound of rice-flour with two eggs; boil it till
soft; then make it into a paste with very little butter, and bake it.


_Paste Royal._

Mix together one pound of flour, and two ounces of sifted sugar; rub
into it half a pound of good butter, and make it into a paste not over
stiff. Roll it out for your pans. This paste is proper for any sweet
tart or cheesecake.


_Short or Puff Paste._ No. 1.

Rub together six ounces of butter and eight of flour; mix it up with as
little water as possible, so as to make a stiff paste. Beat it well, and
roll it thin. This is the best crust of all for tarts that are to be
eaten cold and for preserved fruit. Have a moderate oven.


_Short Paste._ No. 2.

Half a pound of loaf-sugar, and the same quantity of butter, to be
rubbed into a pound of flour; then make it into paste with two eggs.


_Short Paste._ No. 3.

To a pound and a quarter of sifted flour rub gently in half a pound of
fresh butter, mixed up with half a pint of spring water, and set it by
for a quarter of an hour; then roll it out thin; lay on it in small
pieces three quarters of a pound more of butter; throw on it a little
more flour, roll it out thin three times, and set it by for an hour in a
cold place.


_Short Paste._ No. 4.

Take one pound of flour, half a pound of fresh butter, and about four
table-spoonfuls of pounded white sugar. Knead the paste with the yolks
of two eggs well beaten up instead of water. Roll it very thin for
biscuits or tarts.


_Short Paste._ No. 5.

Three ounces of butter to something less than a pound of flour and the
yolk of one egg; the butter to be thoroughly worked into the flour; if
you use sugar, there is no occasion for an egg.


_Short Paste._ No. 6.

Three quarters of a pound of butter, and the same of flour; mix the
flour very stiff with a little water; put the butter in a clean cloth,
and press it thoroughly to get from it all the water. Then roll out all
the flour and water paste, and lay the butter upon it, double over the
paste, and beat it with a rolling-pin. Double it up quite thick, lay it
in a clean plate, and put it in a cool place for an hour. If it is not
light when tried in the oven, it must be beaten again.


_Short Paste._ No. 7.

Rub into your flour as much butter as possible, without its being
greasy; rub it in very fine; put water to make it into a nice light
paste; roll it out; stick bits of butter all over it; then flour and
roll it up again. Do this three times; it is excellent for meat-pies.


_Short Paste, made with Suet._

To one pound of flour take about half a pound of beef suet chopped very
small; pour boiling water upon it; let it stand a little time; then mix
the suet with the flour, taking as little of the water as possible, and
roll it very thin; put a little sugar and white of egg over the crust
before it is baked.


_Sugar Paste._

Take half a pound of flour, and the same quantity of sugar well pounded;
work it together, with a little cream and about two ounces of butter,
into a stiff paste; roll it very thin. When the tarts are made, rub the
white of an egg, well beaten, over them with a feather; put them in a
moderate oven, and sift sugar over them.


_Peaches, to preserve in Brandy._ No. 1.

The peaches should be gathered before they are too ripe; they should be
of the hard kind--old Newington or the Magdalen peaches are the best.
Rub off the down with a flannel, and loosen the stone, which is done by
cutting a quill and passing it carefully round the stone. Prick them
with a large needle in several places; put them into cold water; give
them a great deal of room in the preserving-pan; scald them extremely
gently: the longer you are scalding them the better, for if you do them
hastily, or with too quick a fire, they may crack or break. Turn them
now and then with a feather: when they are tender to the feel, like a
hard-boiled egg that has the shell taken off, remove them from the fire,
carefully take them out, and cover them up close with a flannel. You
must in all their progress observe to keep the fruit covered, and,
whenever you take it from the scalding syrup, cover it up with a cloth
or flannel, or the air will change the colour. Then put to them a thin
syrup cool. The next day, if you think the syrup too thin, drain it well
from the peaches, and add a little more sugar; boil it up, and put it to
them almost cold. To a pint of syrup put half a pint of the best pale
brandy you can get, which sweeten with fine sugar. If the brandy is
dark-coloured, it will spoil the look of the fruit. The peaches should
be well chosen, and they should have sufficient room in the glass jars.
When the liquor wastes, supply the deficiency by adding more syrup and
brandy. Cover them with a bladder, and every now and then turn them
upside down, till the fruit is settled.


_Peaches, to preserve in Brandy._ No. 2.

Scald some of the finest peaches of the white heart kind, free from
spots, in a stewpan of water; take them out when soft, and put them into
a large table-cloth, four or five times doubled. Into a quart of white
French brandy put ten ounces of powdered sugar; let it dissolve, and
stir it well. Put your peaches into a glass jar; pour the brandy on
them; cover them very close with leather and bladder, and take care to
keep your jar filled with brandy.

You should mix your brandy and sugar before you scald the peaches.


_Peaches, to preserve in Brandy._ No. 3.

Put Newington peaches in boiling water: just give them a scald, but do
not let them boil; then take them out, and throw them into cold water.
Dry them on a sieve, and put them in long wide-mouthed bottles. To half
a dozen peaches take half a pound of sugar; just wet it, and make it a
thick syrup. Pour it over the peaches hot; when cold, fill the bottles
with the finest pale brandy, and stop them very close.


_Pears, to pot._

Put in your fruit scored; cover them with apple jelly, and let them boil
till they break; then put them in a hair sieve, and rub them through
with a spoon till you think it thick enough. Boil up as many pounds of
sugar to a candy as you have pints of paste, and when the sugar is put
in the paste, just scald it, and put it into pots.


_Pears, to stew._

Pare some Barland pears; take out the core, and lay them close in a tin
saucepan, with a cover fitting quite exact; add the rind of a lemon cut
thin and half its juice, a small stick of cinnamon, twenty grains of
allspice, and one pound of loaf-sugar, to a pint and a half of water.
Bake them six hours in a very slow oven. Prepared cochineal is often
used for colouring.


_Chicken Pie._

Parboil and neatly cut up your chickens; dry them, and set them over a
slow fire for a few minutes; have ready some forcemeat, and with it some
pieces of ham; lay these at the bottom of the dish, and place the
chickens upon it; add some gravy well seasoned. It takes from an hour
and a half to two hours.


_Giblet Pie._

Let the giblets be well cleaned, and put all into a saucepan excepting
the liver, with a little water and an onion, some whole pepper, a bunch
of sweet-herbs, and a little salt. Cover them close, and let them stew
till tender; then lay in your dish a puff paste, and upon that a
rump-steak peppered and salted; put the seasoned giblets in with the
liver, and add the liquor they were stewed in. Close the pie; bake it
two hours; and when done pour in the gravy.

A Dutch pie is made in the same way.


_Common Goose Pie._

Quarter a goose and season it well. Make a raised crust, and lay it in,
with half a pound of butter at the top, cut into three pieces. Put the
lid on, and bake it gently.


_Rich Goose Pie._

After having boned your goose and fowl, season them well, and put your
fowl into the goose, and into the fowl some forcemeat. Then put both
into a raised crust, filling the corners with the forcemeat. Cut about
half a pound of butter into three or four pieces, and lay on the top,
and bake it well.


_Ham and Chicken Pie._

Cut some thin slices from a boiled ham, lay them on a good puff paste at
the bottom of your dish, and pepper them. Cut a fowl into four quarters,
and season it with a great deal of pepper, and but a little salt; and
lay on the top some hard yolks of eggs, a few truffles and morels, and
then cover the whole with slices of ham peppered: fill the dish with
gravy, and cover it with a good thick paste. Bake it well, and, when
done, pour into it some rich gravy. If to be eaten cold, put no gravy.


_Hare Pie._

Cut the hare into pieces; season it with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and
jug it with half a pound of butter. It must do above an hour, covered
close in a pot of boiling water. Make some forcemeat, and add bruised
liver and a glass of red wine. Let it be highly seasoned, and lay it
round the inside of a raised crust; put the hare in when cool, and add
the gravy that came from it, with some more rich gravy. Put the lid on,
and bake it two hours.


_Lumber Pie._

Take the best neat's tongue well boiled, three quarters of a pound of
beef suet, the like quantity of currants, two good handfuls of spinach,
thyme, and parsley, a little nutmeg, and mace; sweeten to your taste.
Add a French roll grated and six eggs. Mix these all together, put them
into your pie, then lay up the top. Cut into long slices one candied
orange, two pieces of citron, some sliced lemon, add a good deal of
marrow, preserved cherries and barberries, an apple or two cut into
eight pieces, and some butter. Put in white wine, lemon, and sugar, and
serve up.


_Olive Pie._

Two pounds of leg of veal, the lean, with the skin taken out, one pound
of beef suet, both shred very small and beaten; then put them together;
add half a pound of currants and half a pound of raisins stoned, half a
pound of sugar, eight eggs and the whites of four, thyme, sweet
marjoram, winter savory, and parsley, a handful of each. Mix all these
together, and make it up in balls. When you put them in the pie, put
butter between the top and bottom. Take as much suet as meat; when it is
baked, put in a little white wine.


_Partridge Pie._

Truss the partridges the same way as you do a fowl for boiling; then
beat in a mortar some shalots, parsley cut small, the livers of the
birds, and double the quantity of bacon, seasoning them with pepper,
salt, and two blades of mace. When well pounded, put in some fresh
mushrooms. Raise a crust for the pie; cover the bottom with the
seasoning; put in the partridges, but no stuffing, and put in the
remainder of the seasoning between the birds and on the sides; strew
over a little mace, pepper and salt, shalots, fresh mushrooms, a little
bacon beaten very fine; lay a layer of it over them, and put the lid on.
Two hours and a half will bake it, and, when done, take the lid off,
skim off the fat, put a pint of veal gravy, and squeeze in the juice of
an orange.


_Rich Pigeon Pie._

Season the pigeons high; lay a puff paste at the bottom of the dish,
stuffing the craws of the birds with forcemeat, and lay them in the dish
with the breasts downward; fill all the spaces with forcemeat,
hard-boiled yolks of eggs, artichoke bottoms cut in pieces, and
asparagus tops. Cover, and bake it; when drawn, pour in rich gravy.


_High Veal Pie._

Veal, forcemeat balls, yolks of eggs, oysters, a little nutmeg, cayenne
pepper, and salt, with a little water put into the dish.


_Vegetable Pie._

Stew three pounds of gravy beef, with some white pepper, salt, and mace,
a bundle of sweet-herbs, a few sweet almonds, onions, and carrots, till
the gravy is of a good brown colour. Strain it off; let it stand till
cold; and take off all the fat. Have some carrots, turnips, onions,
potatoes, and celery, ready cut; boil all these together. Boil some
greens by themselves, and add them to the pie when served up.


_A Yorkshire Christmas Pie._

Let the crust be made a good standing one; the wall and bottom must be
very thick. Take a turkey and bone it, a goose, a fowl, a partridge, and
a pigeon, and season all well. Take half an ounce of cloves, the same of
black pepper, and two table-spoonfuls of salt, and beat them well
together; let the fowls be slit down the back, and bone them; put the
pigeon into the partridge, the partridge into the fowl, the fowl into
the goose, and the goose into the turkey. Season all well first, and lay
them in the crust; joint a hare, and cut it into pieces; season it, and
lay it close on one side; on the other side woodcocks, or any other sort
of game; let them also be well seasoned and laid close. Put four or five
pounds of butter into the pie; cover it with a very rich paste, put it
in a very hot oven, and four hours will bake it.

A bushel of flour is about the quantity required for the paste.


_Pineapple, to preserve in slices._

Pare the pines, and cut them in slices of about the same thickness as
you would apples for fritters. Take the weight of the fruit in the best
sugar; sift it very fine, and put a layer of sugar, then a layer of
pineapple; let it stand till the sugar is entirely dissolved. Then
drain off the syrup, and lay the pine in the pot in which you intend to
keep it; boil the syrup, adding a little more sugar and water to make it
rich; pour it, but not too hot, upon the fruit. Repeat this in about ten
days; look at it now and then, and, if the syrup ferments, boil it up
again, skim it, and pour it warm upon the pine. The parings of the
pineapple boil in the water you use for the syrup, and extract all the
flavour from them.


_Pineapple Chips._

Pare the pineapples; pick out the thistle part: take half its weight of
treble-refined sugar; part the apple in halves; slice it thin; put it in
a basin, with sifted sugar between; in twelve hours the sugar will be
melted. Set it over a fire, and simmer the chips till clear. The less
they boil the better. Next day, heat them; scrape off the syrup; lay
them in glasses, and dry them on a moderate stove or oven.


_Plums, to dry green._

Take green amber plums; prick them with a pin all over; make some water
boiling hot, and put in the plums; be sure to have so much water as not
to be made cold when the plums are put in. Cover them very close, and,
when they are almost cold, set them on the fire again, but do not let
them boil. Do so three or four times. When you see the thin skin
cracked, put in some alum finely beaten, and keep them in a scald till
they begin to green; then give them a boil closely covered. When they
are green, let them stand in fresh hot water all night; next day, have
ready as much clarified sugar, made into syrup, as will cover them;
drain the plums, put them into the syrup, and give them two or three
boils. Repeat this twice or three times, till they are very green. Let
them stand in the syrup a week; then lay them out to dry in a hot stove.
You may put some of them in codling jelly, and use them as a wet
sweetmeat.


_Green Plum Jam._

Take the great white plums before they begin to turn, when they are at
their full growth, and to every pound of plums allow three quarters of a
pound of fine sugar. Pare and throw the plums into water, to keep their
colour; let your sugar be very finely pounded; cut your plums into
slices, and strew the sugar over them. You must first take them out of
the water, and put them over a moderate fire, and boil them till they
are clear and will jelly. You may put in a few of the stones, if you
like them.


_Great White Plum, to preserve._

To one pound of plums put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar; dip
the lumps of sugar in water just sufficient to wet it through; boil and
skim it, till you think it enough. Slit the plums down the seam; put
them in the syrup with the slit downward, and let them stew over the
fire for a quarter of an hour. Skim them; take them off; when cold, turn
them; cover them up for four or five days, turning them two or three
times a day in the syrup; then put them in pots, not too many together.


_Posset._

Take a quart of white wine and a quart of water; boil whole spice in
them; then take twelve eggs, and put away half the whites; beat them
very well, and take the wine from the fire; then put your eggs, being
thoroughly beaten, to the wine. Stir the whole together; then set it on
a very slow fire, stirring it the whole time, till it is thick. Sweeten
it with sugar, and sprinkle on it beaten spice, cinnamon, and nutmeg.


_Another way, richer._

Take two quarts of cream, and boil it with whole spice; then take twelve
eggs, well beaten and strained; take the cream from the fire, and stir
in the eggs, and as much sugar as will sweeten it according to the taste
of those who are to drink it; then a pint of wine, or more--sack,
sherry, or Lisbon. Set it on the fire again, and let it stand awhile;
then take a ladle, and raise it up gently from the bottom of the skillet
you make it in, and break it as little as you can, and do so till you
see that it is thick enough. Then put it into a basin with a ladle
gently. If you do it too much or too quickly it will whey, and that is
not good.


_Sack Posset._

To twelve eggs, beaten very much, put a pint of sack, or any other
strong rich white wine. Stir them well, that they may not curd; put to
them three pints of cream and half a pound of fine sugar, stirring them
well together. When hot over the fire, put the posset into a basin, and
set it over a boiling pot of water until it is like a custard; then take
it off, and, when it is cool enough to eat, serve it with beaten spice,
cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg, strewed over it very thick.


_Sack Posset, without milk._

Take thirteen eggs; beat them very well, and, while they are beating,
take a quart of sack, half a pound of fine sugar, and a pint of ale, and
let them boil a very little while; then put the eggs to them, and stir
them till they are hot. Take it from the fire, and keep it stirring
awhile; then put it into a fit basin, and cover it close with a dish.
Set it over the fire again till it rises to a curd; serve it with beaten
spice.


_Sack Posset, or Jelly._

Take three pints of good cream and three quarters of a pound of fine
sugar pounded, twenty eggs, leaving out eight of the whites; beat them
very well and light. Add to them rather more than a pint of sack; beat
them again well; then set it on a stove; make it so hot that you can
just endure your finger at the bottom of the pan, and not hotter; stir
it all one way; put the cream on the fire just to boil up, and be ready
at the time the sack is so. Boil in it a blade of mace, and put it
boiling hot to the eggs and sack, which is to be only scalding hot. When
the cream is put in, just stir it round twice; take it off the fire;
cover it up close when it is put into the mould or dish you intend it
for, and it will jelly. Pour the cream to the eggs, holding it as high
from them as possible.


_Puffs._

Blanch a pound of almonds, and beat them with orange-flower water, or
rose-water; boil a pound of sugar to a candy; put in the almonds, and
stir them over the fire till they are stiff. Keep them stirred till
cold; then beat them in a mortar for a quarter of an hour. Add a pound
of sugar, and make it into a paste, with the whites of three eggs beaten
to a froth, more or less, as you may judge necessary. Bake the puffs in
a cool oven.


_Cheese Puffs._

Scald green gooseberries, and pulp them through a colander. To six
spoonfuls of this pulp add half a pound of butter beaten to a cream,
half a pound of finely pounded and sifted sugar, put to the butter by
degrees, ten eggs, half the whites, a little grated lemon-peel, and a
little brandy or sack. Beat all these ingredients as light as possible,
and bake in a thin crust.


_Chocolate Puffs._

Take a pound of single-refined sugar, finely sifted, and grate as much
chocolate as will colour it; add an ounce of beaten almonds; mix them
well together; wet it with the froth of whites of eggs, and bake it.


_German Puffs._

Take four spoonfuls of fine flour, four eggs, a pint of cream, four
ounces of melted butter, and a very little salt; stir and beat them
well together, and add some grated nutmeg. Bake them in small cups: a
quarter of an hour will be quite sufficient: and the oven should be so
quick as to brown both top and bottom. If well baked, they will be more
than as large again. For sauce--melted butter, sack, and sugar. The
above quantity will make fourteen puffs.


_Spanish Puffs._

Take one pint of skim milk, and thicken it with flour; boil it very well
till it is tough as paste, then let it cool, put it into a mortar, and
beat it very well. Put in three eggs, and beat it again, then three eggs
more, keeping out one white. Put in some grated nutmeg and a little
salt. Have your pan over the fire, with some good lard; drop the paste
in; fry the puffs a light brown, and strew sugar over them when you send
them up.


_Pudding._

Boil one pint of milk; beat up the yolks of five eggs in a basin with a
little sugar, and pour the milk upon them, stirring it all the time.
Prepare your mould by putting into it sifted sugar sufficient to cover
it; melt it on the stove, and, when dissolved, take care that the syrup
covers the whole mould. The flavour is improved by grating into the
sugar a little lemon-peel. Pour the pudding into your mould, and place
it in a vessel of boiling water; it must boil two hours; it may then be
turned out, and eaten hot or cold.


_Another way._

Grate a penny loaf, and put to it a handful of currants, a little
clarified butter, the yolk of an egg, a little nutmeg and salt; mix all
together, and make it into little balls. Boil them half an hour. Serve
with wine sauce.


_A good Pudding._

Take a pint of cream, and six eggs, leaving out two of the whites. Beat
up the eggs well, and put them to the cream or milk, with two or three
spoonfuls of flour, and a little nutmeg and sugar, if you please.


_A very good Pudding._

Scald some green gooseberries, and pulp them through a colander; to six
spoonfuls of this pulp add half a pound of butter beaten to a cream,
half a pound of finely beaten and sifted sugar, put to the butter by
degrees, ten eggs, half the whites, a little grated lemon-peel, a little
brandy or sack: beat all these ingredients as light as possible; bake in
a thin crust.


_An excellent Pudding._

Cut French rolls in thin slices; boil a pint of milk, and poor over
them. Cover it with a plate and let it cool; then beat it quite fine.
Add six ounces of suet chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of currants,
three eggs beat up, half a glass of brandy, and some moist sugar. Bake
it full two hours.


_A plain Pudding._

Three spoonfuls of flour, a pint of new milk, three eggs, a very little
salt. Boil it for half an hour, in a small basin.


_A scalded Pudding._

Take four spoonfuls of flour, and pour on it one pint of boiling milk.
When cold, add four eggs, and boil it one hour.


_A sweet Pudding._

Half a pound of ratafia, half a pint of boiling milk, more if required,
stir it with a fork; three eggs, leaving out one white. Butter the
basin, or dish, and stick jar-raisins about the butter as close as you
please; then pour in the pudding and bake it.


_All Three Pudding._

Chopped apples, currants, suet finely chopped, sugar and bread crumb,
three ounces of each, three eggs, but only two of the whites; put all
into a well floured bag, and boil it well two hours. Serve it with wine
sauce.


_Almond Pudding._ No. 1.

Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, with four bitter ones; pound them
in a marble mortar, with two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and two
spoonfuls of rose-water; mix in four grated Naples biscuits, and half a
pound of melted butter. Beat eight eggs, and mix them with a pint of
cream boiled; grate in half a nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of sugar.
Mix all well together, and bake it with a paste at the bottom of the
dish.


_Almond Pudding._ No. 2.

Take a pound of almonds, ground very small with a little rose-water and
sugar, a pound of Naples biscuits finely grated, the marrow of six bones
broken into small pieces--if you have not marrow enough, put in beef
suet finely shred--a quarter of a pound of orange-peel, a quarter of
citron-peel, cut in thin slices, and some mace. Take twenty eggs, only
half as many whites; mix all these well together. Boil some cream, let
it stand till it is almost cold; then put in as much as will make your
pudding tolerably thick. You may put in a very few caraway seeds and a
little ambergris, if you like.


_Almond Pudding._ No. 3.

Two small wine glasses of rose-water, one ounce of isinglass, twelve
bitter almonds, blanched and shred; let it stand by the fire till the
isinglass is dissolved; then put a pint of cream, and the yolks of six
eggs, and sweeten to the taste. Set it on the fire till it boils; strain
it through a sieve; stir it till nearly cold; then pour it into a mould
wetted with rose-water.


_Amber Pudding._

Half a pound of brown sugar, the same of butter, beat up as a cake, till
it becomes a fine cream, six eggs very well beaten, and sweetmeats, if
agreeable; mix all together. Three quarters of an hour will bake it; add
a little brandy, and lay puff paste round the dish.


_Princess Amelia's Pudding._

Pare eight or ten fair large apples, cut them into thin slices, and stew
them gently in a very little water till tender; then take of white bread
grated the quantity of half a threepenny loaf, six yolks and four whites
of eggs beat very light, half a pint of cream, one large spoonful of
sack or brandy, four spoonfuls of clarified butter; mix these all well
together, and beat them very light. Sweeten to your taste, and bake in
tea-cups: a little baking is sufficient. When baked, take them out of
the cups, and serve them with sack, sugar, and melted butter, for sauce.


_Apple Mignon._

Pare and core golden pippins without breaking the apple; lay them in the
dish in which they are to be baked. Take of rice boiled tender in milk
the quantity you judge sufficient; add to it half a pint of thick cream,
with the yolks of five eggs; sweeten it to your taste, and grate in a
little nutmeg; pour it over the apples in the dish; set it in a gentle
oven. Three quarters of an hour will bake it. Glaze it over with sugar.


_Apple Pudding._ No. 1.

Coddle six large codlings till they are very soft over a slow fire to
prevent their bursting. Rub the pulp through a sieve. Put six eggs,
leaving out two whites, six ounces of butter beaten well, three quarters
of a pound of loaf sugar pounded fine, the juice of two lemons, two
ounces of candied orange and lemon-peel, and the peel of one lemon shred
very fine. You must not put in the peel till it is going to the oven.
Put puff paste round the dish; sift over a little sugar; an hour will
bake it.


_Apple Pudding._ No. 2.

Prepare apples as for sauce; when cold, beat in two whole eggs, a little
nutmeg, bitter almonds pounded fine, and sugar, with orange or lemon
peel, and a little juice of either. Bake in a paste.


_Apple Pudding._ No. 3.

Take six apples; stew them in as little water as you can; take out the
pulped part; add to it four eggs, and not quite half a pound of butter;
sweeten it to your taste. Let your paste be good, and put it in a gentle
oven.


_Arrow-root Pudding._

Boil a pint of milk with eight bitter almonds pounded, a piece of
cinnamon, and lemon-peel, for some time; then take a large
table-spoonful of arrow-root, and mix it with cold milk. Mix this
afterwards with the boiling milk. All these must become cold before you
put in the eggs; then beat together three eggs, a little nutmeg and
sugar, and the arrow-root, and strain through a sieve. Butter your
mould, and boil the pudding half an hour. The mould must be quite full;
serve with wine sauce, butter a paper to put over it, and then tie over
a cloth.


_Pearl Barley Pudding._

Boil three table-spoonfuls of pearl barley in a pint and a half of new
milk, with a few bitter almonds, and a little sugar, for three hours.
Strain it; when cold add two eggs; put some paste round the dish, and
bake it.


_Batter Pudding._

Make a batter, rather stiffer than pancake batter; beat up six eggs,
leaving out three of the whites, and put them to the batter, with a
little salt and nutmeg. This quantity is for a pint basin, and will take
one hour to boil.


_Another._

Three table-spoonfuls of flour, two eggs, and about a tea-cupful of
currants; beat up well with a pint of milk, and bake in a slow oven.


_Plain Batter Pudding, or with Fruit._

Put six large spoonfuls of flour into a pan, and mix it with a quart of
milk, till it is smooth. Beat up the yolks of six and the whites of
three eggs, and put in; strain it through a sieve; then put in a
tea-spoonful of salt, one of beaten ginger, and stir them well
together. Dip your cloth in boiling water; flour it, and pour in your
pudding; tie it rather close, and boil it an hour. When sent to table,
pour melted butter over it. You may put in ripe currants, apricots,
small plums, damsons, or white bullace, when in season; but with fruit
it will require boiling half an hour longer.


_Norfolk Batter Pudding._

Yolks and whites of three eggs well beaten, three table-spoonfuls of
flour, half a pint of milk, and a small quantity of salt; boil it half
an hour.


_Green Bean Pudding._

Boil and blanch old beans; beat them in a mortar, with very little
pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little
spinach-juice will give a fine colour; but it is good without. Boil it
for an hour in a basin that will just hold it, and pour over it parsley
and butter. Serve bacon to eat with it.


_Beef Steak Pudding._

Cut rump-steaks, not too thick, into pieces about half the size of your
hand, taking out all the skin and sinews. Add an onion cut fine, also
potatoes (if liked,) peeled and cut in slices a quarter of an inch
thick; season with pepper and salt. Lay a layer of steaks, and then one
of potatoes, proceeding thus till full, occasionally throwing in part of
the onion. Add half a gill of water or veal broth. Boil it two hours.
You may put in, if you please, half a gill of mushroom ketchup, and a
table-spoonful of lemon-pickle.


_Bread Pudding._

Cut off all the crust from a twopenny loaf; slice it thin in a quart of
milk; set it over a chaffing-dish of charcoal, till the bread has
completely soaked up the milk; then put in a piece of butter; stir it
well round, and let it stand till cold. Take the yolks of seven eggs and
the whites of five, and beat them up with a quarter of a pound of sugar,
with some nutmeg, cinnamon, mace, cloves, and lemon-peel, finely
pounded. Mix these well together, and boil it one hour. Prepare a sauce
of white wine, butter, and sugar; pour it over, and serve up hot.


_Another way._

Boil together half a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, and
the same of sugar, and pour it over a quarter of a pound of crumb of
bread. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and two whites; mix all well
together; put the pudding in tea-cups, and bake in a moderate oven about
an hour. Serve in wine sauce.

The above quantity makes five puddings.


_Rich Bread Pudding._

Cut the inside of a rather stale twopenny loaf as fine as possible; pour
over it boiled milk sufficient to allow of its being beaten, while warm,
to the thickness of cream; put in a small piece of butter while hot;
beat into it four almond macaroons; sweeten it to your taste. Beat four
eggs, leaving out two whites; and boil it three quarters of an hour.


_Bread and Butter Pudding._

Cut a penny loaf or French roll into thin slices of bread and butter, as
for tea; butter the bottom of the dish, and cover it with slices of
bread and butter; sprinkle on them a few currants, well washed and
picked; then lay another layer of bread and butter; then again sprinkle
a few currants, and so on till you have put in all the bread and butter.
Beat up three eggs with a pint of milk, a little salt, grated nutmeg, or
ginger, and a few bitter almonds, and pour it on the bread and butter.
Put a puff paste round the dish, and bake it half an hour.


_Raisin Bread Pudding._

Boil your bread pudding in a basin; put the stoned raisins in a circle
at the top, and from it stripes down, when ready to serve up.


_Buttermilk Pudding._

Take three quarts of new milk; boil and turn it with a quart of
buttermilk: drain the whey from the curd through a hair sieve. When it
is well drained, pound it in a marble mortar very fine; then put to it
half a pound of fine beaten and sifted sugar. Boil the rind of two
lemons very tender; mince it fine; add the inside of a roll grated, a
large tea-cupful of cream, a few almonds, pounded fine, with a noggin of
white wine, a little brandy, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter.
The boats or cups you bake in must be all buttered. Turn the puddings
out when they are baked, and serve them with a sauce of sack, butter,
and sugar.


_Carrot Pudding._

Take two or three large carrots, and half boil them; grate the crumb of
a penny loaf and the red part of the carrots; boil as much cream as will
make the bread of a proper thickness; when cold, add the carrots, the
yolks of four eggs, beat well, a little nutmeg, a glass of white wine,
and sugar to your taste. Butter the dish well, and lay a little paste
round the edge. Half an hour will bake it.


_Another way._

Take raw carrots, scraped very clean, and grate them. To half a pound of
grated carrot put a pound of grated bread. Beat up eight eggs, leaving
out the whites; mix the eggs with half a pint of cream, and then stir in
the bread and carrots, with half a pound of fresh butter melted.


_Charlotte Pudding._

Cut as many thin slices of white bread as will cover the bottom and line
the sides of a baking-dish, having first rubbed it thick with butter;
put apples in thin slices into the dish in layers till full, strewing
sugar and bits of butter between. In the mean time, soak as many thin
slices of bread as will cover the whole in warm milk, over which lay a
plate and a weight to keep the bread close on the apples. Bake slowly
three hours. To a middling-sized dish put half a pound of butter in the
whole.


_Cheese Pudding._

Boil a thick piece of stale loaf in a pint of milk; grate half a pound
of cheese; stir it into the bread and milk; beat up separately four
yolks and four whites of eggs, and a little pepper and salt, and beat
the whole together till very fine. Butter the pan, and put into the oven
about the time the first course is sent up.


_Another way._

Half a pound of cheese--strong and mild mixed--four eggs and a little
cream, well mixed. Butter the pan, and bake it twenty minutes. To be
sent up with the cheese, or, if you like, with the tart.


_Citron Pudding._

One spoonful of fine flour, two ounces of sugar, a little nutmeg, and
half a pint of cream; mix them well together with the yolks of three
eggs. Put it into tea-cups, and divide among them two ounces of citron,
cut very thin. Bake them in a pretty quick oven, and turn them out on a
china dish.


_Cocoa-nut Pudding._

Take three quarters of a pound of sugar, one pound of cocoa-nut, a
quarter of a pound of butter, eight yolks of eggs, four spoonfuls of
rose-water, six Naples biscuits soaked in the rose-water; beat half the
sugar with the butter and half with the eggs, and, when beat enough, mix
the cocoa-nut with the butter; then throw in the eggs, and beat all
together. For the crust, the yolks of four eggs, two spoonfuls of
rose-water, and two of water, mixed with flour till it comes to a paste.


_College Pudding._ No. 1.

Beat up four eggs, with two ounces of flour, half a nutmeg, a little
ginger, and three ounces of sugar pounded, beaten to a smooth batter;
then add six ounces of suet chopped fine, six of currants well washed
and picked, and a glass of brandy, or white wine. These puddings are
generally fried in butter or lard, but they are better baked in an oven
in pattypans; twenty minutes will bake them; if fried, fry them till of
a nice light brown, or roll them in a little flour. You may add an ounce
of orange or citron minced very fine. When you bake them, add one more
egg, or two spoonfuls of milk.


_College Pudding._ No. 2.

Take of bread crumb, suet, very finely chopped, currants, and moist
sugar, half a pound of each, and four eggs, leaving out one white, well
beaten. Mix all well together, and add a quarter of a pint of white
wine, leaving part of it for the sauce. Add a little nutmeg and salt.
Boil it a full half hour in tea-cups; or you may fry it. This quantity
will make six. Pour over them melted butter, sugar, and wine.


_College Pudding._ No. 3.

A quarter of a pound of biscuit powder, a quarter of a pound of beef
suet, a quarter of a pound of currants, nicely picked and washed,
nutmeg, a glass of raisin wine, a few bitter almonds pounded,
lemon-peel, and a little juice. Fry ten minutes in beef dripping, and
send to table in wine sauce. Half these ingredients will make eight
puddings.


_College Pudding._ No. 4.

A quarter of a pound of grated bread, the same quantity of currants, the
same of suet shred fine, a small quantity of sugar, and some nutmeg: mix
all well together. Take two eggs, and make it with them into cakes; fry
them of a light brown in butter. Serve them with butter, sugar, and
wine.


_New College Pudding._

Grate a penny white loaf, and put to it a quarter of a pound of
currants, nicely picked and washed, a quarter of a pound of beef suet,
minced small, some nutmeg, salt, and as much cream and eggs as will make
it almost as stiff as paste. Then make it up in the form of eggs: put
them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter melted in the
bottom; lay them in one by one; set them over a clear charcoal fire;
and, when they are brown, turn them till they are brown all over. Send
them to table with wine sauce.

Lemon-peel and a little juice may be added to the pudding.


_Another way._

Take one pound of suet, half a pound of the best raisins, one pound of
currants, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, one nutmeg, a
tea-spoonful of salt, two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and six eggs. Make
them up the size of a turkey's egg; bake or fry them in butter.


_Cottage Pudding._

Two pounds of potatoes, boiled, peeled, and mashed, one pint of milk,
three eggs, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it three quarters of an hour.


_Currant Pudding._

Take one pound of flour, ten ounces of currants, five of moist sugar, a
little grated ginger, nutmeg, and sliced lemon-peel. Put the flour with
the sugar on one side of the basin, and the currants on the other. Melt
a quarter of a pound of butter in half a pint of milk; let it stand till
lukewarm; then add two yolks of eggs and one white only, well beaten,
and three tea-spoonfuls of yest. To prevent bitterness, put a piece of
red-hot charcoal, of the size of a walnut, into the milk; strain it
through a sieve, and pour it over the currants, leaving the flour and
the sugar on the other side of the basin. Throw a little flour from the
dredger over the milk; then cover it up, and leave it at the fire-side
for half an hour to rise. Then mix the whole together with a spoon; put
it into the mould, and leave it again by the fire to rise for another
half hour.


_Custard Pudding._ No. 1.

Take three quarters of a pint of milk, three tea-spoonfuls of flour, and
three eggs: mix the flour quite smooth with a little of the milk cold;
boil the rest, and pour it to the mixed flour, stirring it well
together. Then well beat the eggs, and pour the milk and flour hot to
them. Butter a basin, pour in the pudding. Tie it close in a cloth, and
boil it half an hour. It may be made smaller or larger, by allowing one
egg to one tea-spoonful of flour and a quarter of a pint of milk, and
proportionately shortening the time of boiling. It may be prepared for
boiling any time, or immediately before it is put into the saucepan, as
maybe most convenient. The basin must be quite filled, or the water will
get in.


_Custard Pudding._ No. 2.

Set on the fire a pint of milk, sweetened to your taste, with a little
cinnamon, a few cloves, and grated lemon-peel. Boil it up, and pour it
the moment it is taken off the fire upon the yolks of seven eggs and the
whites of four, stirring it well, and pouring it in by degrees. Boil it
in a well buttered basin, which will hold a pint and a half. Pour wine
sauce over it.


_Custard Pudding._ No. 3.

Boil a pint of milk and a quarter of a pint of good cream; thicken with
flour and water perfectly smooth; break in the yolks of five eggs,
sweetened with powdered loaf sugar, the peel of a lemon grated, and half
a glass of brandy. Line the dish with good puff paste, and bake for half
an hour.


_Custard Pudding._ No. 4.

Take six eggs, one table-spoonful of flour, and a sufficient quantity of
milk to fill the pan. Boil it three quarters of an hour.


_Fish Pudding._

Pound fillets of whiting with a quarter of a pound of butter; add the
crumb of two penny rolls, soaked in cold milk, pepper and salt, with
seasoning according to the taste. Boil in a mould one hour and a
quarter, and then turn it out, and serve up with sauce.


_French Pudding._

Beat twelve eggs, leaving out half the whites, extremely well; take one
pound of melted butter, and one pound of sifted sugar, one nutmeg
grated, the peel of a small orange, the juice of two; the butter and
sugar to be well beaten together; then add to them the eggs and other
ingredients. Beat all very light, and bake in a thin crust.


_Gooseberry Pudding._

Scald a quart of gooseberries, and pass them through a sieve, as you
would for gooseberry fool; add three eggs, three table-spoonfuls of
crumb of bread, three table-spoonfuls of flour, an ounce of butter, and
sugar to your taste. Bake it in a moderate oven.


_Another._

Scald the gooseberries, and prepare them according to the preceding
receipt; mix them with rice, prepared as for a rice pudding, and bake
it.


_Hunter's Pudding._

One pound of raisins, one pound of suet, chopped fine, four spoonfuls of
flour, four of sugar, four of good milk, and four eggs, whites and all,
two spoonfuls of brandy or sack, and some grated nutmeg. It must boil
four hours complete, and should have good room in the bag, as it swells
much in the boiling.


_Jug Pudding._

Beat the whites and yolks of three eggs; strain through a sieve; add
gradually a quarter of a pint of milk; rub in a mortar two ounces of
moist sugar and as much grated nutmeg as would cover a sixpence; then
put in four ounces of flour, and beat it into a smooth batter by
degrees; stir in seven ounces of suet and three ounces of bread crumb;
mix all together half an hour before you put it into the pot. Boil it
three hours.


_Lemon Pudding._

Take two large lemons; peel them thin, and boil them in three waters
till tender; then beat them in a mortar to a paste. Grate a penny roll
into the yolks and whites of four eggs well beaten, half a pint of milk,
and a quarter of a pound of sugar; mix them all well together; put it
into a basin well buttered, and boil it half an hour.


_Another way._

Three lemons, six eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, some crumb of
bread grated, with some lemon-peel and grated sugar.


_Small Lemon Puddings._

One pint of cream, one spoonful of fine flour, two ounces of sugar, some
nutmeg, and the yolks of three eggs; mix all well together; and stick in
two ounces of citron. Bake in tea-cups in a quick oven.


_Maccaroni Pudding._

Take three ounces of maccaroni, two ounces of butter, a pint and a half
of milk boiled, four eggs, half a pound of currants. Put paste round the
dish, and bake it.


_Marrow Pudding._

Boil two quarts of cream with a little mace and nutmeg; beat very light
ten eggs, leaving out half the whites; put the cream scalding to the
eggs, and beat it well. Butter lightly the dish you bake it in; then
slice some French roll, and lay a layer at the bottom; put on it lumps
of marrow; then sprinkle on some currants and fine chopped raisins, then
another layer of thin sliced bread, then marrow again, with the currants
and raisins as before. When the dish is thus filled, pour over the whole
the cream and eggs, which must be sweetened a little. An oven that will
bake a custard will be hot enough for this pudding. Strew on the marrow
a little powdered cinnamon.


_Another way._

Boil up a pint of cream, then take it off; slice two penny loaves thin,
and put them into the cream, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter,
stirring it till melted. Then put into it a quarter of a pound of
almonds beaten well and small, with rose-water, the marrow of three
marrow-bones, and the whites of five eggs, and two yolks. Season it with
mace shred small, and sweeten with a quarter of a pound of sugar. Make
up your pudding. The marrow should first be laid in water to take out
the blood.


_Nottingham Pudding._

Peel six apples; take out the core, but be sure to leave the apples
whole, and fill up the place of the core with sugar. Put them in a dish,
and pour over them a nice light batter. Bake it an hour in a moderate
oven.


_Oatmeal Pudding._

Steep oatmeal all night in milk; in the morning pour away the milk, and
put some cream, beaten spice, currants, a little sugar if you like it;
if not, salt, and as many eggs as you think proper. Stir it well
together; boil it thoroughly, and serve with butter and sugar.


_Orange Pudding._ No. 1.

Take the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of two, six ounces of the
best sugar, beat fine and sifted, and a quarter of a pound of orange
marmalade: beat all well together; set it over a gentle fire to thicken;
put to it half a pound of melted butter, and the juice of a Seville
orange. Bake it in a thin light paste, and take great care not to scorch
it in the oven.


_Orange Pudding._ No. 2.

Grate off the rind of two large Seville oranges as far as they are
yellow; put them in fair water, and let them boil till they are tender,
changing the water two or three times. When they are tender, cut them
open, take away the seeds and strings, and beat them in a mortar, with
half a pound of sugar finely sifted, until it is a fine light paste;
then put in the yolks of ten eggs well beaten, five or six spoonfuls of
thick cream, half a Naples biscuit, and the juice of two more Seville
oranges. Mix these well together, and melt a pound of the best butter,
or beat it to a cream without melting: beat all light and well together,
and bake it in a puff paste three quarters of an hour.


_Orange Pudding._ No. 3.

Grate the peel of four china oranges and of one lemon; boil it in a pint
of cream, with a little cinnamon and some sugar. Scald crumb of white
bread in a little milk; strain the boiled cream to the bread, and mix it
together; add the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs; mix all
well together. Put it into a dish rubbed with a little butter, and bake
it of a nice brown colour. Serve with wine sauce.


_Orange Pudding._ No. 4.

Melt half a pound of fresh butter, and when cold take away the top and
bottom; then mix the yolks of nine eggs well beaten, and half a pound of
double-refined sugar, beaten and seared; beat all well together; grate
in the rind of a good Seville orange, and stir well up. Put it into a
dish, and bake it.


_Orange Pudding._ No. 5.

Simmer two ounces of isinglass in water; steep orange-peel in water all
night; then add one pint of orange-juice, with the yolks of four eggs,
and some white sugar. Bake a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes.


_Orange Pudding._ No. 6.

Cut two large china oranges in quarters, and take out the seeds; beat
them in a mortar, with two ounces of sugar, and the same quantity of
butter; then add four eggs, well beat, and a little Seville
orange-juice. Line the dish with puff paste, and bake it.


_Plain Orange Pudding._

Make a bread pudding, and add a table-spoonful of ratafia, the juice of
a Seville orange and the rind, or that of a lemon cut small. Bake with
puff paste round it; turn it out of the tin when sent to table.


_Paradise Pudding._

Six apples pared and chopped very fine, six eggs, six ounces of bread
grated very fine, six ounces of sugar, six ounces of currants, a little
salt and nutmeg, some lemon-peel, and one glass of brandy. The whole to
boil three hours.


_Pith Pudding._

Take the pith of an ox; wipe the blood clean from it; let it lie in
water two days, changing the water very often. Dry it in a cloth, and
scrape it with a knife to separate the strings from it. Then put it into
a basin; beat it with two or three spoonfuls of rose-water till it is
very fine, and strain it through a fine strainer. Boil a quart of thick
cream with a nutmeg, a blade of mace, and a little cinnamon. Beat half a
pound of almonds very fine with rose-water; put them in the cream and
strain it: beat them again, and again strain till you have extracted all
their goodness; then put to them twelve eggs, with four whites. Mix all
these together with the pith; add five or six spoonfuls of sack, half a
pound of sugar, citron cut small, and the marrow of six bones; and then
fill them. Half an hour will boil them.


_Plum Pudding._ No. 1.

Half a pound of raisins stoned, half a pound of suet, good weight, shred
very fine, half a pint of milk, four eggs, two of the whites only. Beat
the eggs first, mix half the milk with them, stir in the flour and the
rest of the milk by degrees, then the suet and raisins, and a small
tea-cupful of moist sugar. Mix the eggs, sugar, and milk, well together
in the beginning, and stir all the ingredients well together. A plum
pudding should never boil less than five hours; longer will not hurt it.
This quantity makes a large plain pudding: half might do.


_Plum Pudding._ No. 2.

One pound of jar raisins stoned and cut in pieces, one pound of suet
shred small, with a very little salt to it; six eggs, beat with a little
brandy and sack, nearly a pint of milk, a nutmeg grated, a very little
flour, not more than a spoonful, among the raisins, to separate them
from each other, and as much grated bread as will make these ingredients
of the proper consistence when they are all mixed together.


_Plum Pudding._ No. 3.

Take half a pound of crumb of stale bread; cut it in pieces; boil half a
pint of milk and pour over it; let it stand half an hour to soak. Take
half a pound of beef suet shred fine, half a pound of raisins, half a
pound of currants beat up with a little salt; mix them well together
with a handful of flour. Butter the dish, and put the pudding in it to
bake; but if boiled, flour the bag, or butter the mould, if you boil it
in one. To this quantity put three eggs.


_Plum Pudding._ No. 4.

One pound of beef suet, one pound of raisins stoned, four
table-spoonfuls of flour, six ounces of loaf-sugar, one tea-spoonful of
salt, five eggs, and half a grated nutmeg. Flour the cloth well, and
boil it six hours.


_Plum Pudding._ No. 5.

Take currants, raisins, suet, bread crumb, and sugar, half a pound of
each, five eggs, two ounces of almonds blanched and shred very fine,
citron and brandy to taste, and a spoonful of flour.


_A rich Plum Pudding._

A pound and a quarter of sun raisins, stoned, six eggs, two spoonfuls of
flour, a pound of suet, a little nutmeg, a glass of brandy: boil it five
or six hours.


_Potato Pudding._ No. 1.

Boil two pounds of white potatoes; peel them, and bruise them fine in a
mortar, with half a pound of melted butter, and the yolks of four eggs.
Put it into a cloth, and boil it half an hour; then turn it into a dish;
pour melted butter, with a glass of raisin wine, and the juice of a
Seville orange, mixed together as sauce, over it, and strew powdered
sugar all over.


_Potato Pudding._ No. 2.

Take four steamed potatoes; dry and rub them through a sieve; boil a
quarter of a pint of milk, with spice, sugar, and butter; stir the
potatoes in the milk, with the yolks of three eggs; beat the whites to a
strong froth, and add them to the pudding. Bake it in a quick oven.


_Potato Pudding._ No. 3.

Boil three or four potatoes; mash and pass them through a sieve; beat
them up with milk, and let it stand till cold. Then add the yolks of
four eggs and sugar; beat up the four whites to a strong froth, and stir
it in very gently before you put the pudding into the mould.


_Potato Pudding._ No. 4.

One pound of potatoes, three quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of
sugar, eight eggs, a little mace, and nutmeg. Rub the potatoes through a
sieve, to make them quite free from lumps. Bake it.


_Potato Pudding._ No. 5.

Mix twelve ounces of potatoes, boiled, skinned, and mashed, one ounce of
suet, one ounce, or one-sixteenth of a pint, of milk, and one ounce of
Gloucester cheese--total, fifteen ounces--with as much boiling water as
is necessary to bring them to a due consistence. Bake in an earthen pan.


_Potato Pudding._ No. 6.

Potatoes and suet as before, and one ounce of red herrings, pounded fine
in a mortar, mixed, baked, &c. as before.


_Potato Pudding._ No. 7.

The same quantity of potatoes and suet, and one ounce of hung beef,
grated fine with a grater, and mixed and baked as before.


_Pottinger's Pudding._

Three ounces of ground rice, and two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched
and beaten fine; the rice must be boiled and beaten likewise. Mix them
well together, with two eggs, sugar and butter, to your taste. Make as
thin a puff paste as possible, and put it round some cups; when baked,
turn them out, and pour wine sauce over them. This quantity will make
four puddings.


_Prune Pudding._

Mix a pound of flour with a quart of milk; beat up six eggs, and mix
with it a little salt, and a spoonful of beaten ginger. Beat the whole
well together till it is a fine stiff batter; put in a pound of prunes;
tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. When sent to
table, pour melted butter over it.


_Quaking Pudding._

Boil a quart of milk with a bit of cinnamon and mace; mix about a
spoonful of butter with a large spoonful of flour, to which put the milk
by degrees. Add ten eggs, but only half the whites, and a nutmeg grated.
Butter your basin and the cloth you tie over it, which must be tied so
tight and close as not to admit a drop of water. Boil it an hour. Sack
and butter for sauce.


_Another way._

To three quarts of cream put the yolks of twelve eggs and three whites,
and two spoonfuls of flour, half a nutmeg grated, and a quarter of a
pound of sugar. Mix them well together. Put it into a bag, and boil it
with a quick fire; but let the water boil before you put it in. Half an
hour will do it.


_Ratafia Pudding._

A quarter of a pound of sweet and a quarter of an ounce of bitter
almonds, butter and loaf sugar of each a quarter of a pound; beat them
together in a marble mortar. Add a pint of cream, four eggs, leaving out
two whites, and a wine glassful of sherry. Garnish the dish with puff
paste, and bake half an hour.


_Rice Pudding._

Take a quarter of a pound of rice, a pint and a half of new milk, five
eggs, with the whites of two. Set the rice and the milk over the fire
till it is just ready to boil; then pour it into a basin, and stir into
it an ounce of butter till it is quite melted. When cold, the eggs to be
well beaten and stirred in, and the whole sweetened to the taste: in
general, a quarter of a pound of sugar is allowed to the above
proportions. Add about a table-spoonful of ratafia, and a little salt: a
little cream improves it much. Put it into a nice paste, and an hour is
sufficient to bake it.

The rice and milk, while over the fire, must be kept stirred all the
time.


_Another._

Boil five ounces of rice in a pint and a half of milk; when nearly cold,
stir in two ounces of butter, two eggs, three ounces of sugar, spice or
lemon, as you like. Bake it an hour.


_Plain Rice Pudding._

Take a quarter of a pound of whole rice, wash and pick it clean; put it
into a saucepan, with a quart of new milk, a stick of cinnamon, and
lemon-peel shred fine. Boil it gently till the rice is tender and thick,
and stir it often to keep it from burning. Take out the cinnamon and
lemon-peel; put the rice into an earthen pan to cool; beat up the yolks
of four eggs and the whites of two. Stir them into the rice; sweeten it
to the palate with moist sugar; put in some lemon or Seville orange-peel
shred very fine, a few bitter almonds, and a little grated nutmeg and
ginger. Mix all well together; lay a puff paste round the dish, pour in
the pudding, and bake it.


_Another way._

Pour a quart of new milk, scalding hot, upon three ounces of whole rice.
Let it stand covered for an hour or two. Scald the milk again, and pour
it on as before, letting it stand all night. Next day, when you are
ready to make the pudding, set the rice and milk over the fire, give it
a boil up, sweeten it with a little sugar, put into it a very little
pounded cinnamon, stir it well together; butter the dish in which it is
to be baked, pour it in, and put it into the oven. This pudding is not
long in baking.


_Ground Rice Pudding._

Boil three ounces of rice in a pint of milk, stirring it all well
together the whole time of boiling. Pour it into a pan, and stir in six
ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, eight eggs, but half of the
whites only, and twenty almonds pounded, half of them bitter. Put paste
at the bottom of the dish.


_Rice Hunting Pudding._

To a pound of suet, half a pound of currants, a pound of jar raisins
stoned, five eggs, leaving out two whites, half a pound of ground rice,
a little spice, and as much milk as will make it a thick batter. Boil it
two hours and a half.


_Kitchen Rice Pudding._

Half a pound of rice in two quarts of boiling water, a pint and a half
of milk, and a quarter of a pound of beef or mutton suet, shred fine
into it. Bake an hour and a half.


_Rice Plum Pudding._

Half a pound of rice boiled in milk till tender, but the milk must not
run thin about it; then take half a pound of raisins, and the like
quantity of currants, and suet, chopped fine, four eggs, leaving out
half the whites, one table-spoonful of sugar, two of brandy, some
lemon-peel, and spice. Mix these well together, and take two
table-spoonfuls of flour to make it up. It must boil five or six hours
in a tin or basin.


_Small Rice Puddings._

Set three ounces of flour of rice over the fire in three quarters of a
pint of milk; stir it constantly; when stiff, take it off, pour it into
an earthen pan, and stir in three ounces of butter, and a large
tea-cupful of cream; sweeten it to your taste with lump sugar. When
cold, beat five eggs and two whites; grate the peel of half a lemon; cut
three ounces of blanched almonds small, and a few bitter ones with them.
Beat all well together; boil it half an hour in small basins, and serve
with wine sauce.


_Swedish Rice Pudding._

Wash one pound of rice six or eight times in warm water; put it into a
stewpan upon a slow fire till it bursts; strain it through a sieve; add
to the rice one pound of sugar, previously well clarified, and the juice
of six or eight oranges, and of six lemons, and simmer it on the fire
for half an hour. Cover the bottom and the edges of a dish with paste,
taking care that the flour of which the paste is made be first
thoroughly dried. Put in your rice, and decorate with candied
orange-peel.


_Rice White Pot._

Boil one pound of rice, previously well washed in two quarts of new
milk, till it is much reduced, quite tender, and thick; beat it in a
mortar, with a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched, putting it to
them by degrees as you beat them. Boil two quarts of cream with two or
three blades of mace; mix it light with nine eggs--only five
whites--well beat, and a little rose-water; sweeten it to your taste.
Cut some candied orange and citron very thin, and lay it in. Bake it in
a slow oven.


_Sago Pudding._

Boil a quarter of a pound of sago in a pint of new milk, till it is very
thick; stir in a large piece of butter; add sugar and nutmeg to your
palate, and four eggs. Boil it an hour. Wine sauce.


_Spoonful Pudding._

A table-spoonful of flour, a spoonful of cream or milk, some currants,
an egg, a little sugar and brandy, or raisin wine. Make them round and
about the size of an egg, and tie them up in separate pudding-cloths.


_Plain Suet Pudding, baked._

Four spoonfuls of flour, four spoonfuls of suet shred very fine, three
eggs, mixed with a little salt, and a tea-cupful of milk. Bake in a
small pie-dish, and turn it out for table.


_Suet Pudding, boiled._

Shred a pound of beef suet very fine; mix it with a pound of flour, a
little salt and ginger, six eggs, and as much milk as will make it into
a stiff batter. Put it in a cloth, and boil it two hours. When done,
turn it into a dish, with plain melted butter.


_Tansy Pudding._

Beat sixteen eggs very well in a wooden bowl, leaving out six whites,
with a little orange-flower water and brandy; then add to them by
degrees half a pound of fine sifted sugar; grate in a nutmeg, and a
quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit; add a pint of the juice of
spinach, and four spoonfuls of the juice of tansy; then put to it a pint
of cream. Stir it all well together, and put it in a skillet, with a
piece of butter melted; keep it stirring till it becomes pretty thick;
then put it in a dish, and bake it half an hour. When it comes out of
the oven, stick it with blanched almonds cut very thin, and mix in some
citron cut in the same manner. Serve it with sack and sugar, and squeeze
a Seville orange over it. Turn it out in the dish in which you serve it
bottom upwards.


_Another way._

Take five ounces of grated bread, a pint of milk, five eggs, a little
nutmeg, the juice of tansy and spinach, to your taste, a quarter of a
pound of butter, some sugar, and a little brandy; put it in a saucepan,
and keep it stirring on a gentle fire till thick. Then put it in a dish
and bake it; when baked, turn it out, and dust sugar on it.


_Tapioca Pudding._

Take a small tea-cupful of tapioca, and rather more than half that
quantity of whole rice; let it soak all night in water, just enough to
cover it; then add a quart of milk: let it simmer over a slow fire,
stirring it every five minutes till it looks clear. Let it stand till
quite cold; then add three eggs, well beaten with sugar, and grated
lemon-peel, and bake it. It is equally good cold or hot.


_Neat's Tongue Pudding._

Boil a neat's tongue very tender; when cold, peel and shred it very
fine, after grating as much as will cover your hand. Add to it some beef
suet and marrow. Take some oranges and citron, finely cut, some cloves,
nutmeg, and mace, not forgetting salt to your taste, twenty-four eggs,
half the whites only, some sack, a little rose-water, and as much boiled
cream as will make the whole of proper thickness. Then put in two pounds
of currants, if your tongue be large.


_Quatre Fruits._

Take picked strawberries, black currants, raspberries, and the little
black cherries, one pound of each, and two quarts of brandy. Infuse the
whole together, and sweeten to taste. When it has stood a sufficient
time, filter through a jelly-bag till the liquor is quite clear.


_Quinces, to preserve._

Put a third part of the clearest and largest quinces into cold water
over the fire, and coddle till tender, but not so as to be broken. Pare
and cut them into quarters, taking out the core and the hard part, and
then weigh them. The kernels must be taken out of the core, and tied up
in a piece of muslin or gauze. The remaining two-thirds of the quinces
must be grated, and the juice well squeezed out; and to a pound of the
coddled quinces put a pint of juice; pound some cochineal, tie it up in
muslin, and put it to the quinces and juice. They must be together all
night; next day, put a pound of lump sugar to every pound of coddled
quinces; let the sugar be broken into small lumps, and, with the quince
juice, cochineal, and kernels, be boiled together until the quinces are
clear and red, quite to the middle of each quarter. Take out the
quarters, and boil the syrup for half an hour: put the quarters in, and
let them boil gently for near an hour: then put them in a jar, boil the
syrup till it is a thick jelly, and put it boiling hot over them.


_Quinces, to preserve whole._

Pare the quinces very thin, put them into a well-tinned saucepan; fill
it with hard water, lay the parings over the fruit, and keep them down;
cover close that the steam may not escape, and set them over a slow fire
to stew till tender and of a fine red colour. Take them carefully out,
and weigh them to two pounds of quinces. Take two pounds and a half of
double-refined sugar; put it into a preserving-pan, with one quart of
water. Set it over a clear charcoal fire to boil; skim it clean, and,
when it looks clear, put in the quinces. Boil them twelve minutes; take
them off, and set them by for four hours to cool. Set them on the fire
again, and let them boil three minutes; take them off, and let them
stand two days; then boil them again ten minutes with the juice of two
lemons, and set them by till cold. Put them into jars; pour on the
syrup, cover them with brandy paper, tie them close with leather or
bladder, and set them in a dry cool place.


_Ramaquins._ No. 1.

Take two ounces of Cheshire cheese grated, two ounces of white bread
grated, two ounces of butter, half a pint of cream, and a little white
pepper; boil all together; let it stand till cold; then take two yolks
of eggs, beat the whole together, and put it into paper coffins. Twenty
minutes will bake them.


_Ramaquins._ No. 2.

Take very nearly half a pound of Parmesan cheese, two ounces of mild
Gloucester, four yolks of eggs, about six ounces of the best butter, and
a good tea-cupful of cream. Beat the cheese first in a mortar; add by
degrees the other ingredients, and in some measure be regulated by your
taste, whether the proportion of any of them should be increased or
diminished. A little while bakes them; the oven must not be too hot.
They are baked in little paper cases, and served as hot as possible.


_Ramaquins._ No. 3.

Put to a little water just warm a little salt; stir in a quarter of a
pound of butter; it must not boil. When well mixed, let it stand till
cold: then stir in three eggs, one at a time, beating it well till it is
quite smooth; then add three more eggs, beating it well, and half a
pound of Parmesan cheese. Beat it well again, adding two yolks of eggs
and a quarter of a pound of cold butter, and again beat it. Just before
it is going into the oven, beat six eggs to a froth, and beat the whole
together. Bake in paper moulds and in a quick oven. Serve as hot as
possible.


_Ramaquins._ No. 4.

Take a quarter of a pound of Cheshire cheese, two eggs, and two ounces
of butter; beat them fine in a mortar, and make them up in cakes that
will cover a piece of bread of the size of a crown-piece. Lay them on a
dish, not touching one another; set them on a chaffing-dish of coals,
and hold a salamander over them till they are quite brown. Serve up hot.


_Raspberries, to preserve._

Take the juice of red and white raspberries; if you have no white
raspberries, put half codling jelly; put a pint and a half of juice to
two pounds of sugar; let it boil, and skim it. Then put in three
quarters of a pound of large red raspberries; boil them very fast till
they jelly and are very clear; do not take them off the fire, that would
make them hard, and a quarter of an hour will do them. After they begin
to boil fast, put the raspberries in pots or glasses; then strain the
jelly from the seeds, and put it to them. When they begin to cool, stir
them, that they may not lie at the top of the glasses; and, when cold,
lay upon them papers wetted with brandy and dried with a cloth.


_Another way._

Put three quarters of a pound of moist sugar to every quart of fruit,
and let them boil gently till they jelly.


_Raspberries, to preserve in Currant Jelly._

Strip the currants from the stalks; weigh one pound of sugar to one
pound of fruit, and to every eight pounds of currants put one pound of
raspberries, for which you are not to allow any sugar. Wet the sugar,
and let it boil till it is almost sugar again; then throw in the fruit,
and, with a very smart fire, let it boil up all over. Take it off, and
strain it through a lawn sieve. You must not let it boil too much, for
fear of the currants breaking, and the seeds coming through into the
jelly. When it boils up in the middle, and the syrup diffuses itself
generally, it is sufficiently done; then take it off instantly. This
makes a very elegant, clear currant jelly, and may be kept and used as
such. Take some whole fine large raspberries; stalk them; put some of
the jelly, made as above directed, in your preserving-pan; sprinkle in
the raspberries, not too many at a time, for fear of bruising them.
About ten minutes will do them. Take them off, and put them in pots or
glasses. If you choose to do more, you must put in the pan a fresh
supply of jelly. Let the jelly nearly boil up before you put in the
raspberries.


_Raspberry Jam._ No. 1.--_Very good._

Take to each pound of raspberries half a pint of juice of red and white
currants, an equal quantity of each, in the whole half a pint, and a
pound of double-refined sugar. Stew or bake the currants in a pot, to
get out the juice. Let the sugar be finely beaten; then take half the
raspberries and squeeze through a coarse cloth, to keep back the seeds;
bruise the rest with the back of a wooden spoon; the half that is
bruised must be of the best raspberries. Mix the raspberries, juice, and
sugar, together: set it over a good fire, and let it boil as fast as
possible, till you see it will jelly, which you may try in a spoon.


_Raspberry Jam._ No. 2.

Weigh equal quantities of sugar and of fruit; put the fruit into a
preserving-pan: boil it very quickly; break it; and stir it constantly.
When the juice is almost wasted, add the sugar, and simmer it half an
hour. Use a silver spoon.


_Raspberry Jam._ No. 3.

To six quarts of raspberries put three pounds of refined sugar finely
pounded; strain half the raspberries from the seed; then boil the juice
and the other half together. As it jellies, put it into pots. The sugar
should first be boiled separately, before the raspberries are added.


_Raspberry Paste._

Break three parts of your raspberries red and white; strain them through
linen; break the other part, and put into the juice; boil it till it
jellies, and then let it stand till cold. To every pint put a pound of
sugar, and make it scalding hot: add some codling jelly before you put
in the seeds.


_Apple Tart with Rice Crust._

Pare and quarter six russet apples; stew them till soft; sweeten with
lump-sugar; grate some lemon-peel; boil a tea-cupful of rice in milk
till it becomes thick: sweeten it well with loaf-sugar. Add a little
cream, cinnamon, and nutmeg; lay the apple in the dish; cover it with
rice; beat the whites of two eggs to a strong froth; lay it on the top;
dust a little sugar over it, and brown it in the oven.


_Another way._

Pare and core as many apples as your dish will conveniently bake; stew
them with sugar, a bit of lemon-peel, and a little cinnamon. Prepare
your rice as for a rice pudding. Fill your dish three parts full of
apples, and cover it with the rice.


_Rolls._

Take two pounds of flour; divide it; put one half into a deep pan; rub
two ounces of butter into the flour; the whites of two eggs whisked to a
high froth; add one table-spoonful of yest, four table-spoonfuls of
cream, the yolk of one egg, a pint of milk, rather more than new milk
warm. Mix the above together into a lather; beat it for ten minutes;
then cover it, and set it before the fire for two hours to rise. Mix in
the other half of the flour, and set it before the fire for a quarter of
an hour. These rolls must be baked in earthenware cups, rubbed with a
little butter, and not more than half filled with dough; they must be
baked a quarter of an hour in a very hot oven.


_Another way._

Take one quart of fine flour; wet it with warm milk, and six
table-spoonfuls of small beer yest, a quarter of a pound of butter, and
a little salt. Do not make the dough too stiff at first, but let it rise
awhile; then work in the flour to the proper consistency. Set it to rise
some time longer, then form your rolls of any size you please; bake them
in a warmish oven; twenty minutes will bake the small and half an hour
the large ones.


_Excellent Rolls._

Take three pounds of the finest flour, and mix up the yolks of three
eggs with the yest. Wet the flour with milk, first melting in the milk
one ounce of butter, and add a little salt to the flour.


_Little Rolls._

One pound of flour, two or three spoonfuls of yest, the yolks of two
eggs, the white of one, a little salt, moistened with milk. This dough
must be made softer than for bread, and beaten well with a spoon till it
is quite light; let it stand some hours before it is baked; some persons
make it over-night. The Dutch oven, which must first be made warm, will
bake the rolls, which must be turned to prevent their catching.


_Breakfast Rolls._

Rub exceedingly fine two ounces of good butter in a pound and three
quarters of fine flour. Mix a table-spoonful of yest in half a pint of
warm milk; set a light sponge in the flour till it rises for an hour;
beat up one or two eggs in half a spoonful of fine sugar, and intermix
it with the sponge, adding to it a little less than half a pint of warm
milk with a tea-spoonful of salt. Mix all up to a light dough, and keep
it warm, to rise again for another hour. Then break it in pieces, and
roll them to the thickness of your finger of the proper length; lay them
on tin plates, and set them in a warm stove for an hour more. Then touch
them over with a little milk, and bake them in a slow oven with care. To
take off the bitterness from the yest, mix one pint of it in two gallons
of water, and let it stand for twenty-four hours; then throw off the
water, and the yest is fit for use; if not, repeat it.


_Another way._

With two pounds of flour mix about half a pound of butter, till it is
like crumbled bread; add two whole eggs, three spoonfuls of good yest,
and a little salt. Make it up into little rolls; set them before the
fire for a short time to rise, but, if the yest is very good, this will
not be necessary.


_Brentford Rolls._

Take two pounds of fine flour; put to it a little salt, and two
spoonfuls of fine sugar sifted; rub in a quarter of a pound of fresh
butter, the yolks of two eggs, two spoonfuls of yest, and about a pint
of milk. Work the whole into a dough, and set it to the fire to rise.
Make twelve rolls of it; lay them on buttered tins, let them stand to
the fire to rise till they are very light, then bake them about half an
hour.


_Dutch Rolls._

Into one pound of flour rub three ounces of butter; with a spoonful of
yest, mixed up with warm milk, make it into light paste; set it before
the fire to rise. When risen nearly half as big again, make it into
rolls about the length of four inches, and the breadth of two fingers;
set them again to rise before the fire, till risen very well; put them
into the oven for a quarter of an hour.


_French Rolls._ No. 1.

Seven pounds of flour, four eggs leaving out two yolks--the whites of
the eggs should be beaten to a snow--three quarters of a pint of ale
yest. Beat the eggs and yest together, adding warm milk; put it so beat
into the flour, in which must be well rubbed four ounces of butter; wet
the whole into a soft paste. Keep beating it in the bowl with your hand
for a quarter of an hour at least; let it stand by the fire half an
hour, then make it into rolls, and put them into pans or dishes, first
well floured, or, what is still better, iron moulds, which are made on
purpose to bake rolls in. Let them stand by the fire another half hour,
and put them, bottom upwards, on tin plates, in the middle of a hot oven
for three quarters of an hour or more: take them out, and rasp them.


_French Rolls._ No. 2.

Take two or three spoonfuls of good yest, as much warm water, two or
three lumps of loaf-sugar, and the yolk of an egg. Mix all together; let
it stand to rise. Meanwhile take a quartern of the finest flour, and rub
in about an ounce of butter. Then take a quart of new milk, and put into
it a pint of boiling water, so as to make it rather warmer than new milk
from the cow. Mix together the milk and yest, and strain through a sieve
into the flour, and, when you have made it into a light paste, flour a
piece of clean linen cloth well, lay it upon a thick double flannel, put
your paste into the cloth, wrap it up close, and put it in an earthen
pan before the fire till it rises. Make it up into ten rolls, and put
them into a quick oven for a quarter of an hour.


_French Rolls._ No. 3.

To half a peck of the best flour put six eggs, leaving out two whites, a
little salt, a pint of good ale yest, and as much new milk, a little
warmed, as will make it a thin light paste. Stir it about with your
hand, or with a large wooden spoon, but by no means knead it. Set it in
a pan before the fire for about an hour, or till it rises; then make it
up into little rolls, and bake it in a quick oven.


_Milton Rolls._

Take one pound of fine rye flour, a little salt, the yolk of one egg, a
small cupful of yest, and some warm new milk, with a bit of butter in
it. Mix all together; let it stand one hour to rise; and bake your rolls
half an hour in a quick oven.


_Runnet._

Take out the stomachs of fowls before you dress them; wash and cleanse
them thoroughly; then string them, and hang them up to dry. When wanted
for use, soak them in water, and boil them in milk; this makes the best
and sweetest whey.


_Another way._

Take the curd out of a calf's maw; wash and pick it clean from the hair
and stones that are sometimes in it, and season it well with salt. Wipe
the maw, and salt it well, within and without, and put in the curd. Let
it lie in salt for three or four days, and then hang it up.


_Rusks._

Take flour, water, or milk, yest, and brown sugar; work it just the same
as for bread. Make it up into a long loaf, and bake it. Then let it be
one day old before you cut it in slices: make your oven extremely hot,
and dry them in it for about two minutes, watching them all the time.


_Another way._

Put five pounds of fine flour in a large basin; add to it eight eggs
unbeat, yolks and whites; dissolve half a pound of sugar over the fire,
in a choppin (or a Scotch quart) of new milk; add all this to the flour
with half a mutchkin, (one English pint) of new yest; mix it well, and
set it before a good fire covered with a cloth. Let it stand half an
hour, then work it up with a little more flour, and let it stand half an
hour longer. Then take it out of the basin, and make it up on a board
into small round or square biscuits, place them upon sheets of white
iron, and set them before the fire, covered with a cloth, till they
rise, which will be in half an hour. Put them into the oven, just when
the bread is taken out; shut the oven till the biscuits turn brown on
the top; then take them out, and cut them through.


_Rusks, and Tops and Bottoms._

Well mix two pounds of sugar, dried and sifted, with twelve pounds of
flour, also well dried and sifted. Beat up eighteen eggs, leaving out
eight whites, very light, with half a pint of new yest, and put it into
the flour. Melt two pounds of butter in three pints of new milk, and wet
the paste with it to your liking. Make it up in little cakes; lay them
one on another; when baked, separate them, and return them to the oven
to harden.


_Sally Lunn._

To two pounds of fine flour put about two table-spoonfuls of fresh yest,
mixed with a pint of new milk made warm. Add the yolks of three eggs,
well beat up. Rub into the flour about a quarter of a pound of butter,
with salt to your taste; put it to the fire to rise, as you do bread.
Make it into a cake, and put it on a tin over a chaffing-dish of slow
coals, or on a hot hearth, till you see it rise; then put it into a
quick oven, and, when the upper side is well baked, turn it. When done,
rasp it all over and butter it; the top will take a pound of butter.


_Slip-Cote._

A piece of runnet, the size of half-a-crown, put into a table-spoonful
of boiling water over-night, and strained into a quart of new milk,
lukewarm, an hour before it is eaten.


_Soufflé._

Two table-spoonfuls of ground rice, half a pint of milk or cream, and
the rind of a lemon, pared very thin, sugar, and a bay-leaf, to be
stewed together for ten minutes; take out the peel, and let it stand
till cold; then add the yolks of four eggs, which have been well beaten,
with sifted sugar; the four whites to be beaten separately to a fine
froth, and added to the above, which must be gently stirred all
together, put into a tin mould, and baked in a quick oven for twenty
minutes.


_Another way._

Make a raised pie of any size you think proper. Take some milk, a
bay-leaf, a little cinnamon, sugar, and coriander seeds; boil it till it
is quite thick. Melt a piece of butter in another stewpan, with a
handful of flour well stirred in; let it boil some time; strain the milk
through, and put all together, adding four or five eggs, beaten up for a
long time; these are to be added at the last, and then baked.


_Soufflé of Apples and Rice._

Prepare some rice of a strong solid substance; dress it up all round a
dish, the same height as a raised crust, that is, about three inches
high. Have some marmalade of apple ready made; mix with it six yolks of
eggs, and a small piece of butter; warm it on the stove in order to do
the eggs; then have eight whites of eggs well whipped, as for biscuits;
mix them lightly with the apples, and put the whole into the middle of
the rice. Set it in a moderately hot oven, and, when the soufflé is
raised sufficiently, send it up quickly to table, as it would soon fall
and spoil.


_Strawberries, to preserve for eating with Cream._

Take the largest scarlet strawberries you can get, full red, but not too
ripe, and their weight in double-refined sugar. Take more strawberries
of the same sort; put them in a pot, and set them in water over the fire
to draw out the juice. To every pound of strawberries allow full half a
pint of this juice, adding to it nearly a quarter of a pound more sugar.
Dip all the sugar in water; set it on the fire; and, when it is
thoroughly melted, take it off, and stir it till it is almost cold. Then
put in the strawberries, and boil them over a quick fire; skim them;
and, when they look clear, they are done enough. If you think the syrup
too thin, take out the fruit, and boil it more; but you must stir it
till it is cold before you put the strawberries in again.


_Strawberries, to preserve in Currant Jelly._

Boil all the ordinary strawberries you can spare in the water in which
you mean to put the sugar to make the syrup for the strawberries. Take
three quarters of a pound of the finest scarlet or pine strawberries;
add to them one pound and a quarter of sugar, which dip in the
above-mentioned strawberry liquor; then boil the strawberries quick, and
skim them clear once. When cold, remove them out of the pan into a China
bowl. If you touch them while hot, you break or bruise them. Keep them
closely covered with white paper till the currants are ripe, every now
and then looking at them to see if they ferment or want heating up
again. Do it if required, and put on fresh papers. When the currants are
ripe, boil up the strawberries; skim them well; let them stand till
almost cold, and then take them out of the syrup very carefully. Lay
them on a lawn sieve, with a dish under them to catch the syrup; then
strain the syrup through another lawn sieve, to clear it of all the bits
and seeds; add to this syrup full half a pint of red and white currant
juice, in equal quantities of each; then boil it quick about ten
minutes, skimming it well. When it jellies, which you may know by trying
it in a spoon, add the strawberries to it, and let them just simmer
without boiling. Put them carefully into the pots, but, for fear of the
strawberries settling at the bottom, put in a little of the jelly first
and let it set; then put in the strawberries and jelly; watch them a
little till they are cold, and, as the strawberries rise above the
syrup, with a tea-spoon gently force them down again under it. In a few
days put on brandy papers--they will turn out in a firm jelly.


_Strawberries, to preserve in Gooseberry Jelly._

Take a quart of the sharpest white gooseberries and a quart of water;
let them come up to a boil, and then strain them through a lawn sieve.
To a pint of the liquor put one pound of double-refined sugar; let it
boil till it jellies; skim it very well, and take it off; when cool, put
in the strawberries whole and picked. Set them on the fire; let them
come to a boil; take them off till cold; repeat this three or four times
till they are clear; then take the strawberries out carefully, that they
may not bruise or break, and boil the jelly till it is stiff. Put a
little first in the bottom of your pots or glasses; when set, put in the
rest, first mixed with the strawberries, but not till nearly cold.


_Strawberry Jam--very good._

To one pound of scarlet strawberries, which are by far the best for the
purpose, put a pound of powdered sugar. Take another half pound of
strawberries, and squeeze all their juice through a cloth, taking care
that none of the seeds come through to the jam. Then boil the
strawberries, juice, and sugar, over a quick fire; skim it very clean;
set it by in a clean China bowl, covering it close with writing paper;
when the currants are ripe, add to the strawberries full half a pint of
red currant juice, and half a pound more of pounded sugar: boil it all
together for about ten or twelve minutes over a quick fire, and skim it
very well.


_Another way._

Gather the strawberries very ripe; bruise them fine; put to them a
little juice of strawberries; beat and sift their weight in sugar, and
strew it over them. Put the pulp into a preserving-pan; set it on a
clear fire, and boil it three quarters of an hour, stirring it all the
time. Put it into pots, and keep it in a dry place, with brandy paper
over it.


_Sugar, to clarify._

Break into pieces two pounds of double-refined sugar; put it into a
stewpan, with a pint of cold spring water; when dissolved, set it over a
moderate fire; beat about half the white of an egg; put it to the sugar,
before it gets warm, and stir it well together. When it boils, take off
the scum; keep it boiling till no scum rises and it is perfectly clear.
Run it through a clean napkin; put it in a bottle well corked, and it
will keep for months.


_Syllabub._

Take a quart of cream with a slice or two of lemon-peel, to be laid to
soak in the cream. Take half a pint of sack and six spoonfuls of white
wine, dividing it equally into your syllabub. Set your cream over the
fire, and make it something more than lukewarm; sweeten both sack and
cream, and put the cream into a spouted pot, pouring it rather high from
the pot into the vessel in which you intend to put it. Let it be made
about eight or nine hours before you want it for use.


_Another way._

Mix a quart of cream, not too thick, with a pint of white wine, and the
juice of two lemons; sweeten it to your taste; put it in a broad earthen
pan; then whisk it up. As the froth rises, take it off with a spoon, and
put it in your glasses, but do not make it long before you want them.


_Everlasting Syllabub--very excellent._

Take a quart and half a pint of cream, one pint of Rhenish wine, half a
pint of sack, the juice of three lemons, about a pound of double-refined
sugar, beaten fine and sifted before you put it into the cream. Grate
off the rinds of the three lemons used, put it with the juice into the
wine, and that to the cream. Then beat all together with a whisk just
half an hour; take it up with a spoon, and fill your glasses. It will
keep good nine or ten days, and is best three or four days old.


_Solid Syllabub._

Half a pint of white wine, a wine-glass of brandy, the peel of a lemon
grated and the juice, half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, and a pint of
cream. Stir these ingredients well together; then dissolve one ounce of
isinglass in half a pint of water; strain it; and when cool add it to
the syllabub, stirring it well all the time; then put it in a mould. It
is better made the day before you want it.


_Whipt Syllabub._

Boil a quart of cream with a bit of cinnamon; let it cool; take out the
cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste. Put in half a pint of white wine,
or sack, and a piece of lemon-peel. Whip it with a whisk to a froth;
take it off with a spoon as it rises; lay it on the bottom of a sieve;
put wine sweetened in the bottom of your glasses, and lay on the
syllabub as high as you can.


_Taffy._

Two pounds of moist sugar, an ounce of candied orange-peel, the same of
citron, the juice of three lemons, the rind of two grated, and two
ounces and a half of butter. Keep stirring these on the fire until they
attain the desired consistency. Pour it on paper oiled to prevent its
sticking.


_Trifle._ No. 1.

Take as many macaroons as the bottom of your dish will hold; peel off
the wafers, and dip the cakes in Madeira or mountain wine. Make a very
thick custard, with pounded apricot or peach kernels boiled in it; but
if you have none, you may put some bitter almonds; pour the custard hot
upon the maccaroons. When the custard is cold, or just before the trifle
is sent to table, lay on it as much whipped syllabub as the dish can
hold. The syllabub must be done with very good cream and wine, and put
on a sieve to drain before you lay it on the custard. If you like it,
put here and there on the whipped cream bunches of preserved barberries,
or pieces of raspberry jam.


_Trifle._ No. 2.

Take a quart of sweet cream; boil it with a blade of mace and a little
lemon-peel; sweeten it with sugar; keep stirring it till it is almost
cold to prevent it from creaming at top; then put it into the dish you
intend to serve it in, with a spoonful or less of runnet. Let it stand
till it becomes like cheese. You may perfume it, or add orange-flower
water.


_Trifle._ No. 3.

Cover the bottom of your dish with maccaroons and ratafia cakes; just
wet them all through with mountain wine or raisin wine; then make a
boiled custard, not too thick, and when cold pour it over them. Lay a
whipped syllabub over that. You may garnish with currant jelly.


_Trotter Jelly._

Boil four sheep's trotters in a quart of water till reduced to a pint,
and strain it through a fine sieve.


_Veal and Ham Patés._

Chop six ounces of ready dressed lean veal and three ounces of ham very
small; put it into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter rolled in flour,
half a gill of cream, the same quantity of veal stock, a little
lemon-peel, cayenne pepper and salt, to which add, if you like, a
spoonful of essence of ham and some lemon-juice.


_Venison Pasty._

Bone a neck and breast of venison, and season them well with salt and
pepper; put them into a pan, with part of a neck of mutton sliced and
laid over them, and a glass of red wine. Cover the whole with a coarse
paste, and bake it an hour or two; but finish baking in a puff paste,
adding a little more seasoning and the gravy from the meat. Let the
crust be half an inch thick at the bottom, and the top crust thicker. If
the pasty is to be eaten hot, pour a rich gravy into it when it comes
from the oven; but, if cold, there is no occasion for that. The breast
and shoulder make a very good pasty. It may be done in raised crust. A
middle-sized pasty will take three hours' baking.


_Vol-au-Vent._

Take a sufficient quantity of puff-paste, cut it to the shape of the
dish, and make it as for an apple pie, only without a top. When baked,
put it on a sheet of writing paper, near the fire, to drain the butter,
till dinner time. Then take two fowls, which have been previously
boiled; cut them up as for a fricassee, but leave out the back. Prepare
a sauce, the white sauce as directed for boiled fowls. Wash a
table-spoonful of mushrooms in three or four cold waters; cut them in
half, and add them also; then thoroughly heat up the sauce, and have the
chicken also ready heated in a little boiling water, in which put a
little soup jelly. Strain the liquor from the chicken; pour a little of
the sauce in the bottom of the paste, then lay the wings, &c. in the
paste; pour the rest of the sauce over them, and serve it up hot. The
paste should be well filled to the top, and if there is not sauce enough
more must be added.


_Wafers._

Take a pint of cream, melt in it half a pound of butter, and set it to
cool. When cold, stir into it one pound of well dried and sifted flour
by degrees, that it may be quite smooth and not lumpy, also six eggs
well beaten, and one spoonful of ale yest. Beat all these well together;
set it before the fire, cover it, and let it stand to rise one hour,
before you bake. Some order it to be stirred a little while to keep it
from being hard at top. Sprinkle over a little powdered cinnamon and
sugar, when done.


_Sugar Wafers._

Take some double-refined sugar, sifted; wet it with the juice of lemon
pretty thin, and then scald it over the fire till it candies on the
top. Then put it on paper, and rub it about thin; when almost cold, pin
up the paper across, and put the wafers in a stove to dry. Wet the
outside of the paper to take them off. You may make them red with clear
gilliflowers boiled in water, yellow with saffron in water, and green
with the juice of spinach. Put sugar in, and scald it as though white,
and, with a pin, mark your white ones before you pin them up.


_Walnuts, to preserve._

Take fine large walnuts at the time proper for pickling; prick, with a
large bodkin, seven or eight holes in each to let out the water; keep
them in water till they change colour or no longer look green; then put
them over a fire in cold water to boil, till they feel just soft, but
not too soft. Spread them on a coarse cloth to cool, and take away the
water; stick in each walnut three or four cloves, three or four
splinters of cinnamon, and the same of candied orange; then put them in
pots or glasses. Boil a syrup, but not thick, which, when cold, pour
over the walnuts, and let it stand a day or two; then pour the syrup
off; add some more sugar; boil it up once more, and pour it again over
the walnuts. When cold, tie them up.


_White Walnuts._

Take nuts that are neither too large nor too small; peel them to the
white, taking off all the green with care, and throw them into pump
water as you peel them; let them soak one night. Boil them quick in fair
water, throwing in a handful or two of alum in powder, according to the
quantity, that they may be very white. When boiled, put them in fresh
water, and take them out again in a minute; lay them on a dry cloth to
dry, and lard them with preserved citron; then put them in the syrup you
have made for the purpose, while they were larding, and let them soak
two or three days before you boil them quite; the syrup must be very
clear. One hundred walnuts make about three pounds of sweetmeats.


_Mustard Whey._

Take milk and water of each a pint, bruised mustard seed an ounce and a
half; boil these together till the curd is perfectly separated: then
strain the whey through a cloth, and add a little sugar, which makes it
more palatable.


_Yest._

Boil one ounce of hops in three quarts of water until reduced to about
three pints. Pour it upon one pound of flour; make it into a batter;
strain it through a colander, and, when nearly cold, put to it one pint
of home-brewed yest. Put it into a bottle, and keep it for use. It
should stand twenty-four or thirty hours before it is used.


_Excellent Yest._

Put a pint of well boiled milk into a hasty-pudding, and beat it till
cold and there are few lumps remaining; then put to it two spoonfuls of
yest and two of white powdered sugar, and stir it well. Put it in a
large bowl not far from the fire, and next morning you will find it
risen and light. Put it all to your flour, which must be mixed with as
much warm milk and water as is necessary to make it into dough, and put
it to rise in the common way.


_Potato Yest._

Boil rather more than a quarter of a peck of potatoes; bruise them
through a colander; add half a pound of fine flour, and thin it with
cold water till it is like a thick batter. Add three table-spoonfuls of
good yest; let it stand for an hour, and make your bread.

This yest will always serve to make fresh from.


_Another way._

Weigh four pounds of raw potatoes pared; boil them in five pints of
water. Wash and rub them through a sieve with the water in which they
were boiled. Add four table-spoonfuls of good brown sugar; when
milk-warm, put to the mixture three pennyworth of fresh yest; stir it
well, and let it work in an open vessel. It will be fit for use in about
twelve or fourteen hours.

About a pint and a half of this mixture will raise eighteen pounds of
coarse flour; it may be put to rise over-night and will be ready to
knead the first thing in the morning. It should be left to rise in the
loaf four or five hours, before it is put in the oven.




PICKLES.


_General Directions._

Stone jars, well glazed, are best for all sorts of pickles, as earthen
vessels will not resist the vinegar, which penetrates through them.

Never touch pickles with the hand, or any thing greasy; but always make
use of a wooden spoon, and keep them closely tied down, in a cool, dry
place.

When you add vinegar to old pickles, let it boil, and stand till cold
before you use it: on the contrary, when you make pickles, put it on the
ingredients boiling and done with the usual spices.


_Green Almonds._

Boil a quantity of vinegar proportionate to that of the almonds to be
pickled, skim it, and put into it salt, mace, ginger, Jamaica and white
pepper. Put it into a jar, and let it stand till cold. Throw your
almonds into the liquor, which must cover them.


_Artichokes._

Artichokes should be laid about six hours in a very strong brine of salt
and water. Then put them into a pot of boiling water, and boil them till
you can draw the leaves from the bottom, which must be cut smooth and
clean, and put into a pot, with whole black pepper, salt, cloves, mace,
bay-leaves, and as much white wine vinegar as will cover them. Lastly,
pour upon them melted butter an inch thick, and cover them down close.
When you take out any for use, put them into boiling water, with a piece
of butter to plump them, and you may use them for whatever you please.


_Artichokes to boil in Winter._

Boil your artichokes for half a day in salt and water; put them into a
pot of boiling water, allowing them to continue boiling until you can
just draw off the leaves from the bottom; cut them very clean and
smooth, and put them into the pot with cloves, mace, salt, pepper, two
bay-leaves, and as much vinegar as will cover them. Pour melted butter
over to cover them about an inch thick; tie and keep them close down for
use, with a piece of butter to plump them. You may use these for what
you like.


_Asparagus._

Scrape the asparagus, and cut off the prime part at the ends; wipe them,
and lay them carefully in a jar or jelly-pot, pour vinegar over them,
and let them lie in this about fourteen days. Then boil fresh vinegar,
and pour it on them hot; repeat this until they are of a good colour;
add a little mace and nutmeg, and tie them down close. This does very
well for a made dish when asparagus is not to be had.


_Barberries._ No. 1.

Gather the barberries when full ripe, picking out those that look bad.
Lay them in a deep pot. Make two quarts of strong brine of salt and
water; boil it with a pint of vinegar, a pound of white sugar, a few
cloves, whole white pepper, and mace, tied in a bag; skim it, and when
cold pour it on your barberries. Barberries with stones will pickle;
they must be without stones for preserving.


_Barberries._ No. 2.

Colour the water of the worst barberries, and add salt till the brine is
strong enough to bear an egg. Boil it for half an hour, skimming it, and
when cold strain it over the barberries. Lay something on them to keep
them in the liquor: put them into a glass, and cover with leather.


_Barberries._ No. 3.

Boil a strong brine of salt and water, let it stand till quite cold, and
pour it upon the barberries.


_Barberries._ No. 4.

Put into a jar some maiden barberries, with a good quantity of salt; tie
on a bladder, and when the liquor scums change it.


_Beet-root._

Beet-root must be boiled in strong salt and water, to which add a pint
of vinegar and a little cochineal. When boiled enough, take it off the
fire, and keep it in the liquor in which it has been boiled. It makes a
pretty garnish for a dish of fish, and is not unpleasant to eat.


_Another._

Boil the root till tender, peel it, and, if you think proper, cut it
into shapes. Pour over it a hot pickle of white wine vinegar,
horseradish, a little ginger, and pepper.


_Beet-root and Turnips._

Boil your beet-root in salt and water, with a little cochineal and
vinegar; when half boiled, put in your turnips pared; when they are done
enough, take them off, and keep them in the same liquor in which they
were boiled.


_Cabbage._

Shave the cabbage into long slips, or, if you like, cut it in quarters.
Scald it in salt and water for about four minutes; then take it out, and
let it cool. Boil some vinegar, salt, ginger, whole pepper, and mace;
after boiling and skimming it, let it get cold, and then put in your
cabbage, which, if covered down presently, will keep white.


_Red Cabbage._ No. 1.

Slice the cabbage very fine crosswise, put it on an earthen dish,
sprinkle a handful of salt over it, cover it with another dish, and let
it stand twenty-four hours. Then put it in a colander to drain, and lay
it in your jar; take white wine vinegar enough to cover it, a little
cloves, mace, and allspice. Put them in whole with one pennyworth of
cochineal, bruised fine; boil it up, and put it over the cabbage, hot,
or cold, which you like best. Cover it close with a cloth till it is
cold, and then tie it over with leather.


_Red Cabbage._ No. 2.

Slice the cabbage into a colander, sprinkle each layer with salt, let it
drain two days; then put it into wide-mouthed bottles, pour on it
boiling vinegar, sufficient to cover it, and add a few slices of
beet-root. Cover the bottle with bladder.


_Red Cabbage._ No. 3.

Take a firm cabbage cut in quarters; slice it; boil your vinegar with
ginger and pepper; let it stand till cold; then pour it over your
cabbage, and tie it down. It will be fit for use in three weeks.


_Capers._

Capers are the produce of, a small shrub, but preserved in pickle, and
are grown in some parts of England, but they come chiefly from the
neighbourhood of Toulon, the produce of which is considered the finest
of any in Europe. The buds are gathered from the blossom before they
open, and then spread on the floor, where the sun cannot reach them, and
there they are left till they begin to wither; they are then thrown into
sharp vinegar, and in about three days bay salt is added in proper
quantity, and when this is dissolved they are fit for packing for sale,
and sent all over the world.


_Capsicum._

Let the pods be gathered with the stalks on before they turn red, and
with a penknife cut a slit down the side, and take out all the seed, but
as little of the meat as possible. Lay them in strong brine for three
days, changing the brine every day. Take them out, lay them on a cloth,
and another over them. Boil the liquor, put into it some mace and nutmeg
beaten small; put the pods into a jar; when the liquor is cold, pour it
over them, and tie down with a bladder and leather.


_Cauliflower._

Cut from the closest and whitest heads pieces about the length of your
finger, and boil them in a cloth with milk and water, but not till
tender. Take them out very carefully, and let them stand till cold. With
the best white wine vinegar boil nutmeg, cut into quarters, mace,
cloves, a little whole pepper, and a bay-leaf, and let it remain till
cold. Pour this into the jar to your cauliflower, and in three or four
days it will be ready for use.


_Another way._

Having cut the flower in bunches, throw them for a minute into boiling
salt and water, and then into cold spring water. Drain and dry them;
cover with double-distilled vinegar; in a week put fresh vinegar, with a
little mace and nutmeg, covering down close.


_Clove Gilliflower, or any other Flower, for Salads._

Put an equal weight of the flowers and of sugar, fill up with white wine
vinegar, and to every pint of vinegar put a pound of sugar.


_Codlings._

The codlings should be the size of large walnuts; put vine leaves in the
bottom of your pan, and lay in the codlings, covering with leaves and
then with water; set them over a gentle fire till they may be peeled;
then peel and put them into the water, with vine leaves at top and
bottom, covering them close; set them over a slow fire till they become
green, and, when they are cold, take off the end whole, cutting it round
with a small knife; scoop out the core, fill the apple with garlic and
mustard seed, put on the bit, and set that end uppermost in the pickle,
which must be double-distilled vinegar cold, with mace and cloves.


_Cucumbers._ No. 1.

Gather young cucumbers, commonly called gherkins--the small long sort
are considered the best--wipe them very clean with a cloth; boil some
salt and water, and pour over them; keep them close covered. Repeat this
every day till they are green, putting fresh water every other day: let
them stand near the fire, just to keep warm; the brine must be strong
enough to bear an egg. When they are green, boil some white wine
vinegar, pour it over them, put some mace in with them, and cover them
with leather. It is better to put the salt and water to them once only,
and they should be boiled up over the fire, in the vinegar, in a
bell-metal kettle, with some vine leaves over, to green them. A brass
kettle will not hurt, if very clean, and the cucumbers are turned out of
it as soon as off the fire.


_Cucumbers._ No. 2.

In a large earthen pan mix spring water and salt well together, taking
two pounds of salt to every gallon of water. Throw in your cucumbers,
wash them well, and let them remain for twelve hours; then drain and
wipe them very dry, and put them into a jar. Put into a bell-metal pot a
gallon of the best white wine vinegar, half an ounce of cloves and of
mace, one ounce of allspice, one ounce of mustard-seed, a stick of
horseradish sliced, six bay-leaves, a little dill, two or three races of
ginger, a nutmeg cut in pieces, and a handful of salt. Boil all
together, and pour it over the cucumbers. Cover them close down, and let
them stand twenty-four hours, then pour off the vinegar from them, boil
it, pour it over them again, and cover them close: repeat this process
every day till they are green. Then tie them down with bladder and
leather; set them in a cool dry place, and they will keep for three or
four years. Beans may be pickled in the same manner.


_Cucumbers._ No. 3.

Wipe the cucumbers clean with a coarse cloth, and put them into a jar.
Take some vinegar, into which put pepper, ginger, cloves, and a handful
of salt. Pour it boiling hot over the cucumbers, and smother them with a
flannel: let them stand a fortnight; then take off the pickle, and boil
it again. Pour it boiling on the cucumbers, and smother them as before.
The pickle should be boiled in a bell-metal skillet. With two thousand
cucumbers put into the pot about a pennyworth of Roman vitriol.


_Large Cucumbers, Mango of._

Take a cucumber, cut out a slip from the side, taking out the seeds, but
be careful to let as much of the meat remain as you can. Bruise mustard
seed, a clove of garlic, some bits of horseradish, slices of ginger, and
put in all these. Tie the piece on again, and make a pickle of vinegar,
whole pepper, salt, mace, and cloves: boil it, and pour it on the
mangoes, and continue this for nine days together. When cold, cover them
down with leather.


_Another._

Scrape out the core and seed, filling them with whole pepper, a clove of
garlic, and other spice. Put them into salt and water, covered close up,
for twenty-four hours; then drain and wipe them dry. Boil as much
vinegar with spice as will cover them, and pour it on them scalding hot.


_Cucumbers sliced._

Take cucumbers not full grown, slice them into a pewter dish; to twelve
cucumbers put three or four onions sliced, and as you do them strew salt
on them; cover them with a pewter dish, and let them stand twenty-four
hours. Then take out the onions, strain the liquor from the cucumbers
through a colander, and put them in a well glazed jar, with a pickle
made of white wine vinegar, distilled in a cold still, with seasoning of
mace, cloves, and pepper. The pickle must be poured boiling hot upon
them, and then cover them down as close as possible. In four or five
days take them out of the pickle, boil it, and pour it on as before,
keeping the jar very close. Repeat this three times; cover the jar with
a bladder, and leather over it; the cucumbers will keep the whole year,
and be of a fine sea-green, but perhaps not of so fine colour when first
you open them; they will become so, however, if the vinegar is really
fine.


_Cucumbers stuffed._

Take six or eight middling-sized cucumbers, the smoothest you can
procure; pare them, cut a small piece off the end, and scoop out all the
seeds; blanch them for three or four minutes in boiling water on the
fire; then put them into cold water to make the forcemeat. Then take
some veal off the leg, calf's udder, fat bacon, and a piece of suet, and
put it in boiling water about four minutes; take it out, and chop all
together; put some parsley, small green onions, and shalots, all finely
chopped, some salt, pepper, and nutmeg, sufficient for seasoning it,
some crumbs of bread that have been steeped in cream, the whites of two
eggs, and four yolks beaten well in a mortar. Stuff your cucumbers with
this, and put the piece you cut off each upon it again. Lay at the
bottom of your stewpan some thin slices of bacon, with the skin of the
veal, onions in slices, parsley, thyme, some cloves; put your cucumbers
in your stewpan, and cover them with bacon, &c., as at the bottom, and
then add some strong broth, just sufficient to cover them. Set them over
a slow fire covered, and let them stew slowly for an hour. Make some
brown gravy of a good colour, and well tasted; and, when your cucumbers
are stewed, take them out, drain them well from all grease, and put them
in your brown gravy; it must not be thick. Set it over the stove for two
minutes, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon.

To make brown gravy, put into your stewpan a quarter of a pound of
butter; set it over the fire, and, when melted, put in a spoonful of
flour, and keep stirring it till it is as brown as you wish, but be
careful not to let it burn; put some good gravy to it, and let it boil
some time, with parsley, onions, thyme, and spices, and then strain it
to your cucumbers.

Should any of the cucumbers be left at dinner, you may serve them up
another way for supper; cut the cucumbers in two, lengthwise, or, if you
like, in round slices; add yolks of eggs beaten, and dust them all well
over with crumb of bread rubbed very fine; fry them very hot; make them
of a good colour, and serve them in a dish, with fried parsley.


_Cucumbers, to preserve._

Take some small cucumbers, and large ones that will cut in quarters, but
let them be as green and as free from seeds as you can get them. Put
them into a narrow-mouthed jar, in strong salt and water, with a
cabbage-leaf to keep them from rising; tie a paper over them, and set
them in a warm place till they are yellow. Then wash them out, and set
them over the fire in fresh water, with a little salt and a fresh
cabbage-leaf over them. Cover the pan very close, but be sure you do not
let them boil. If they are not of a fine green, change the water, which
will help them; then make them hot, and cover them as before. When you
find them of a good green, take them off the fire, and let them stand
till they are cold: then cut the large ones into quarters; take out the
seeds and soft parts, put them into cold water, and let them stand two
days; but change the water twice each day, to take out the salt; put a
pound of refined sugar to a pint of water, and set it over the fire;
when you have skimmed it clear, put in the rind of a lemon and an ounce
of ginger, scraping off the outside. Take your syrup off as soon as it
is pretty thick, and, when it is cold, wipe the cucumbers dry and put
them into it. Boil the syrup once in two or three days for three weeks,
and strengthen the syrup if required, for the greatest danger of
spoiling them is at first. When you put the syrup to the cucumbers, wait
till it is quite cold.


_French Beans._ No. 1.

Gather them when very slender; string and parboil them in very strong
salt and water; then take them out, and dry them between two linen
cloths. When they are well drained, put them into a large earthen
vessel, and, having boiled up the same kind of pickle as for cucumbers,
pour as much upon your beans as will cover them well. Strain the liquor
from them three days successively; boil it up, and put your beans into
the vinegar on the fire till they are warm through. After the third
boiling, put them into jars for use, and tie them down.


_French Beans._ No. 2.

Take from the small slender beans their stalks, and let them remain
fourteen days in salt and water; then wash and well cleanse them from
the brine, and put them in a saucepan of water over a slow fire,
covering them with vine-leaves. Do not let them boil, but only stew,
until they are tender, as for eating; strain them off, lay them on a
coarse cloth to dry, and put them into pots; boil and skim alegar, and
pour it over, covering them close; keep boiling in this manner for three
or four days, or until they become green; add spice, as you would to
other pickles, and, when cold, cover with leather.


_French Beans._ No. 3.

Put in a large jar a layer of beans, the younger the better, and a layer
of salt, alternately, and tie it down close. When wanted for use, boil
them in a quantity of boiling water: change the water two or three
times, always adding the fresh water boiling; then put them into cold
water to soak out the salt, and cut them when you want them for dressing
for table. They must not be soaked before they are boiled.


_Herrings, to marinate._

Take a quarter of a hundred of herrings; cut off their heads and tails;
take out the roes, and clean them; then take half an ounce of Jamaica
and half an ounce of common pepper, an ounce of bay salt, and an ounce
and a half of common salt; beat the pepper fine, mix it with the salt,
and put some of this seasoning into the belly of each herring. Lay them
in rows, and between every row strew some of the seasoning, and lay a
bunch or two of thyme, parsley, and sage, and three or four bay-leaves.
Cover your fish with good vinegar, and your pot with paste; put the pot
into the oven after the household bread is drawn; let it remain all
night; and, when it comes out of the oven, pour out all the liquor, take
out the herbs; again boil up the liquor; add as much more vinegar as
will cover the herrings, skim it clean, and strain it. When cold, pour
it over your herrings.


_Herrings, red, Trout fashion._

Cut off their heads, cleanse them well, and lay a row at the bottom of
an earthen pot, sprinkling them over with bay salt and saltpetre, mixed
together. Repeat this until your pan is full; then cover them, and bake
them gently; when cold, they will be as red as anchovies, and the bones
dissolved.


_India Pickle, called Picolili._ No. 1.

Lay one pound of ginger in salt and water for a whole night; then scrape
and cut it in thin slices, and lay them in the sun to dry; put them into
a jar till the other ingredients are ready. Peel two pounds of garlic,
and cut it in thin slices; cover it with salt for three days; drain it
well from the brine, and dry it as above directed. Take young cabbages,
cut them in quarters, salt them for three days, and dry them as above;
do the same with cauliflowers, celery, and radishes, scraping the latter
and leaving the tops of the celery on, French beans, and asparagus,
which last two must be salted only two days, and dried in the same
manner. Take long pepper and salt it, but do not dry it too much, three
ounces of turmeric, and a quarter of a pound of mustard seed finely
bruised; put these into a stone jar, and pour on them a gallon of strong
vinegar; look at it now and then, and if you see occasion add more
vinegar. Proceed in the same manner with plums, peaches, melons, apples,
cucumbers; artichoke bottoms must be pared and cut raw; then salt them,
and give them just one gentle boil, putting them into the water when
hot. Never do red cabbage or walnuts. The more every thing is dried, the
plumper it will become in the vinegar. Put in a pound or two of whole
garlic prepared as above to act as a pickle. You need never empty the
jar, as the pickle keeps; but as things come into season, do them and
throw them in, observing that the vinegar always covers them. If the
ingredients cannot be conveniently dried by the sun, you may do them by
the fire, but the sun is best.


_India Pickle._ No. 2.

Select the closest and whitest cabbage you can get, take off the outside
leaves, quarter and cut them into thin slices, and lay them upon a
sieve; salt well between each layer of the cabbage, and let it drain
till the next day; then dry it in a cloth, and spread it in dishes
before the fire, or the sun, often turning it till dry. Put it in a
stone jar, with half a pint of white mustard seed, a little mace and
cloves beat to a powder, as much cayenne as will lie on a shilling, a
large head of garlic, and one pennyworth of turmeric in powder. Pour on
it three quarts of vinegar boiling hot; cover it close with a cloth, and
let it stand a fortnight; then turn it all out into a saucepan. Boil it,
turning it often, about eight minutes, and put it up in your jar for
use. It will be ready in a month. If other things are put in, they
should lie in salt three days and then be dried; in this case, it will
be necessary to make the pickle stronger, by adding ginger and
horseradish, and it must be kept longer before used.


_India Pickle._ No. 3.

Boil one pound of salt, four ounces of ginger, eight ounces of shalots
or garlic, a spoonful of cayenne pepper, two ounces of mustard seed, and
six quarts of good vinegar. When cold, you may put in green fruit or any
vegetable you choose, fresh as you pick them, only wiping off the dust.
Stop your jar close, and put in a little turmeric to colour it.


_Lemons._ No. 1.

Cut the lemons through the yellow rind only, into eight parts; then put
them into a deep pan, a layer of salt and a layer of lemons, so as not
to touch one another; set them in the chimney corner, and be sure to
turn them every day, and to pack them up in the same manner as before.
This you must continue doing fifteen or sixteen days; then take them out
of the salt, lay them in a flat pan, and put them in the sun every day
for a month; or, if there should be no sun, before the fire; then put
them in the pickle; in about six months they will be fit to eat. Make
the pickle for them as follows: Take two pounds of peeled garlic, eight
pods of India pepper, when it is green; one pound and a half of ginger,
one pound and a quarter of mustard seed, half an ounce of turmeric; each
clove of the garlic must be split in half; the ginger must be cut in
small slices, and, as no green ginger can be had in Europe, you must
cover the ginger with salt in a clean earthen vessel, until it is soft,
which it will be in about three weeks, or something more, by which means
you may cut it as you please; the mustard seed must be reduced, but not
to powder, and the turmeric pounded fine: mix them well together, and
add three ounces of oil of mustard seed. Put these ingredients into a
gallon of the best white wine vinegar boiled; then put the whole upon
the lemons in a glazed jar, and tie them up close. They will not be fit
in less than six months. When the vinegar is boiled, let it stand to be
cold, or rather lukewarm, before you put it to the lemons, and if you
use more than a gallon of vinegar, increase the quantity of each
ingredient in proportion. Strictly observe the direction first given, to
let the lemons lie in salt fifteen or sixteen days, to turn them every
day, and to let them be thoroughly dry before you put the pickle to
them; it will be a month at least before they are sufficiently dry.


_Lemons._ No. 2.

Take twelve lemons pared so thin that not the least of the whites is to
be seen; slit them across at each end, and work in as much salt as you
can, rubbing them very well within and without. Lay them in an earthen
pan for three or four days, and strew a good deal of salt over them;
then put in twelve cloves of garlic, and a large handful of horseradish;
dry the lemons with the salt over them in a very slow oven, till the
lemons have no moisture in them, but the garlic and the horseradish must
not be dried so much. Then take a gallon of vinegar, cloves, mace, and
nutmegs, broken roughly, half an ounce of each, and the like quantity of
cayenne pepper. Give them a boil in the vinegar; and, when cold, stir in
a quarter of a pound of flour of mustard, and pour it upon the lemons,
garlic, &c. Stir them every day, for a week together, or more. When the
lemons are used in made dishes, shred them very small; and, when you use
the liquor, shake it before you put it to the sauce, or in a cruet. When
the lemons are dried, they must be as hard as a crust of bread, but not
burned.


_Lemons._ No. 3.

Take two dozen lemons, cut off about an inch at one end, scoop out all
the pulp, fill them with salt, and sew on the tops. Let them continue
over the mouth of an oven, or in any slow heat, for about three weeks,
till they are quite dried. Take out the salt; lay them in an earthen
jar; put to them six quarts of the best vinegar which has been boiled;
add some long pepper, mace, ginger, and cinnamon, a few bay-leaves, four
cloves of garlic, and six ounces of the best flour of mustard. When
quite cold, cover up the jar, and let it stand for three weeks or a
month. Then strain off the liquor, and bottle it.


_Lemons._ No. 4.

Quarter the lemons lengthwise, taking care not to cut them so low as to
separate; put a table-spoonful of salt into each. Set them on a pewter
dish; dry them very slowly in a cool oven or in the sun; they will take
two or three weeks to dry properly. For a dozen large lemons boil three
quarts of vinegar, with two dozen peppercorns, two dozen allspices, and
four races of ginger sliced. When the vinegar is cold, put it, with the
lemons, the ingredients, and all the salt, into a jar; add a quarter of
a pound of flour of mustard and two dozen cloves of garlic; the garlic
must be peeled and softened in scalding water for a little while, then
covered with salt for three days, and dried before it is put into the
jar. Let the whole remain for two months closely tied down and stirred
every day; then squeeze the lemons well; strain and bottle the liquor.


_Lemons._ No. 5.

Select small thick-rinded lemons; rub them with a flannel; slit them in
four parts, but not through to the pulp; stuff the slits full of salt,
and set them upright in a pan. Let them remain thus for five or six
days, or longer if the salt should not be melted, turning them three
times a day in their own liquor, until they become tender. Then make a
pickle of rape, vinegar, and the brine from the lemons, ginger, and
Jamaica pepper. Boil and skim it, and when cold put it to the lemons,
with three cloves of garlic, and two ounces of mustard seed. This is
quite sufficient for six lemons.


_Lemons._ No. 6.

Boil them in water and afterwards in vinegar and sugar, and then cut
them in slices.


_Lemons, or Oranges._

Select fruit free from spots; lay them gently in a barrel. Take pure
water, and make it so strong with bay-salt as that it would bear an egg;
with this brine fill up the barrel, and close it tight.


_Mango Cossundria, or Pickle._

Take of green mangoes two pounds, green ginger one pound, yellow mustard
seed one pound; half dried chives, garlic, salt, mustard, oil, of each
two ounces; fine vinegar, four bottles. Cut the mangoes in slices
lengthwise, and place them in the sun till half dried. Slice the ginger
also; put the whole in a jar well closed, and set it in the sun for a
month. This pickle will keep for years, and improves by age.


_Melons._

Scoop your melons clean from the pulp; fill them with scraped
horseradish, ginger, nutmeg, sliced garlic, mace, pepper, mustard-seed,
and tie them up. Afterwards take the best white wine vinegar, a
quartered nutmeg, a handful of salt, whole pepper, cloves, and mace, or
a little ginger; let the vinegar and spice boil together, and when
boiling hot pour it over the fruit, and tie them down very close for two
or three days; but, if you wish to have them green, let them be put over
a fire in their pickle in a metal pot, until they are scalding hot and
green; then pour them into pots, and stop them close down, and, when
cold, cover them with wet bladder and leather.


_Melons to imitate Mangoes._

Cut off the tops of the melons, so as that you may take out the seeds
with a small spoon; lay them in salt and water, changing it every
twenty-four hours for nine successive days: then take them out, wipe
them dry, and put into each one clove of garlic or two small shalots, a
slice or two of horseradish, a slice of ginger, and a tea-spoonful of
mustard seed; this being done, tie up their tops again very fast with
packthread, and boil them up in a sufficient quantity of white wine
vinegar, bay-salt, and spices, as for cucumbers, skimming the pickle as
it rises; put a piece of alum into your pickle, about the size of a
walnut; and, after it has boiled a quarter of an hour, pour it, with the
fruit, into your jar or pan, and cover it with a cloth. Next day boil
your pickle again, and pour it hot upon your melons. After this has been
repeated three times, and the pickle and fruit are quite cold, stop them
up as directed for mushrooms. These and all other pickles should be set
in a dry place, and frequently inspected; and, if they grow mouldy, you
must pour off the liquor and boil it up as at first.


_Melons or Cucumbers, as Mangoes._

Pour over your melons or other vegetables boiling hot salt and water,
and dry them the next day; cut a piece out of the side; scrape away the
seed very clean; and fill them with scraped horseradish, garlic, and
mustard seed; then put in the piece, and tie it close. Pour boiling hot
vinegar over them, and in about three days boil up the vinegar with
cloves, pepper, and ginger: then throw in your mangoes, and boil them up
quick for a few minutes; put them in jars, which should be of stone, and
cover them close.

The melons ought to be small and the cucumbers large. Should they not
turn out green enough, the vinegar must be boiled again.


_Mushrooms._ No. 1.

Gather your mushrooms in August or September, and peel off the uppermost
skin; cut the large ones into quarters, and, as you do them, throw them
into clear water, but be very careful not to have any worm-eaten ones.
You may put the buttons in whole; the white are the best, and look
better than the red. Take them out, and wash them in another clear
water; then put them into a dry skillet without water; and with a little
salt set them on the fire to boil in their own liquor, till half is
consumed and they are as tender as you wish them; as the scum rises,
take it off. Remove them from the fire: pour them into a colander, and
drain off all the water. Have ready pickle, boiled and become cold
again, made of the best white wine vinegar; then add a little mace,
ginger, cloves, and whole pepper: boil it; put your mushrooms in the
pickle when cold, and tie them up close.


_Mushrooms._ No. 2.

Put your mushrooms into salt and water, and wash them clean with a
flannel, throw them into water as you do them; then boil some salt and
water: when it boils, put in your mushrooms, and let them boil one
minute. Take them out, and smother them between two flannels; when cold,
put them into white wine vinegar, with what spice you choose. The
vinegar must be boiled and stand till cold. Keep them closely tied down
with a bladder. A bit of alum is frequently put to keep them firm.

The white mushrooms are done the same way, using milk and water instead
of salt and water, distilled vinegar in the room of white wine vinegar,
no spices except mace, and a lump of alum.


_Mushrooms._ No. 3.

Cut off the stalks of the small hard mushrooms, called buttons, and wash
and rub them dry in a clean flannel. Boil some water and salt, and while
boiling put in the mushrooms. Let them just boil, and strain them
through a cloth. Make a pickle of white wine vinegar, mace, and ginger,
and put to them; then put them into pots, with a little oil over them,
and stop them close.


_Mushrooms._ No. 4.

Put young mushrooms into milk and water; take them out, dry them well,
and put them into a brine made of salt and spring water. Boil the brine,
and put in the mushrooms; boil them up for five minutes; drain them
quick, covering them up between two cloths and drying them well. Boil a
pickle of double-distilled vinegar and mace; when it is cold, put in the
buttons, and pour oil on the top. It is advisable to put them into small
glass jars, as they do not keep after being opened. It is an excellent
way to boil them in milk.


_Mushrooms._ No. 5.

Put your mushrooms into water; rub them very clean with a piece of
flannel; put them into milk and water, and boil them till they are
rather tender. Then pour them into an earthen colander, and pump cold
water on them till they are quite cold. Have ready some salt and water;
put them into it; let them lie twenty-four hours; then dry them in a
cloth. Then put them into a pickle made of the best white wine vinegar,
mace, pepper, and nutmeg. If you choose to boil your pickle, it must be
quite cold before you put in the mushrooms.


_Mushrooms._ No. 6.

Peel your mushrooms, and throw them into clean water; wash them in two
or three waters, and boil them in a little water, with a bundle of
sweet-herbs, a good quantity of salt, a little rosemary, and spice of
all sorts. When well boiled, let them remain in the liquor for
twenty-four hours; pour the liquor into a hot cloth, smothering them for
a night and a day; then put in your pickle, which make of elder and
white wine vinegar, with all kinds of spice, horseradish, ginger, and
lemon-juice. Put them into pots, cover with oiled paper, and keep them
close for use.


_Mushrooms._ No. 7.

Clean them very well, and take out the gills; boil them tender with a
little salt, and dry them with a cloth. Make a strong brine; when it is
cold, put in the mushrooms, and in about ten days or a fortnight change
the brine, and put them into small bottles, pouring oil on the top.


_Brown Mushrooms._

Wipe them very clean, put them into a stewpan with mace, cloves, pepper,
and salt, and to every quart of mushrooms put about two large spoonfuls
of mushroom ketchup; stew them gently over a slow fire for about half an
hour, then let them cool. Put them into bottles. To each quart of
mushrooms put a quarter of a pint of white wine vinegar boiled and
cooled; stop the bottles close with rosin.


_Mushrooms, to dry._

Cut off their stalks, and cut or scrape out the gills, and with a little
salt put them into a saucepan. Set them on the fire, and let them stew
in their own liquor; then pour them into a sieve to drain. When dry, put
them into a slack oven upon tin plates, and, when quite dry, put them
into shallow boxes for use.

The liquor will make ketchup.


_Mushroom Liquor and Powder._

Take about a peck of mushrooms, wash them, and rub them with a piece of
flannel, taking out the gills, but do not peel them. Put to them half an
ounce of beaten pepper, four bay-leaves, four cloves, twelve blades of
mace, a handful of salt, eight onions, a bit of butter, and half a pint
of vinegar; stew all these as quick as possible; keep stirring till the
liquor is quite out of the mushrooms; then drain them, and bottle the
liquor and spice when cold. Dry the mushrooms in an oven, first on a
flat or broad pan, then on sieves, until they can be beaten into powder.
This quantity will make about seven ounces. Stop the powder close in
wide-mouthed bottles.


_Mustard Pickle._

Cut cabbages, cauliflowers, and onions, in small pieces or slices; salt
them together, and let them stand in the salt for a few days. Then take
them up in a strainer that the brine may run off; put them in a jar that
will hold three quarts; take enough vinegar to cover them; boil it up,
pour it on them, and cover it till next day. Pour the vinegar off, take
the same quantity of fresh vinegar, of black pepper, ginger, and Jamaica
pepper, each one ounce; boil them up together, let the liquor stand till
cold; then mix four tea-spoonfuls of turmeric, and six ounces of flour
of mustard, which pour on them cold. Cover the pickle up close; let it
stand three weeks; and it will be fit for use. The spices must be put in
whole.


_Nasturtiums._

The seed must be full grown and gathered on a dry day. Let them lie two
or three days in salt and water; take them out, well dry them, and put
them into a jar. Take as much white wine vinegar as will cover them, and
boil it up with mace, sliced ginger, and a few bay leaves, for a quarter
of an hour. Pour the pickle upon the seeds boiling hot. This must be
repeated three days, keeping them covered with a folded cloth. After the
third time, take care to let them be quite cold before you stop them up,
which you must do very close.


_Onions._ No. 1.

Take your onions when they are dry enough to lay up for winter, the
smaller the better they look: put them in a pot, cover them with spring
water, with a handful of salt, and let them boil up; then strain them
off. Take off three coats; lay them on a cloth, and let two persons take
hold of it, one at each end, and rub them backwards and forwards till
they are very dry. Then put them in your jars or bottles, with some
blades of mace, cloves, and nutmeg, cut into pieces; take some
double-distilled white wine vinegar, boil it up with a little salt; let
it stand till it is cold, and put it over the onions. Cork them close,
and tie a bladder and leather over them.


_Onions._ No. 2.

Take the smallest onions you can get; peel and put them into spring
water and salt made very strong. Shift them daily for six days; then
boil them a very little; skim them well, and make a pickle as for
cucumbers, only adding a little mustard seed. Let the onions and the
pickle both be cold, when you put them together. Keep them stopped very
close, or they will spoil.


_Onions._ No. 3.

Peel some small white onions, and boil them in water with salt; strain
them, and let them remain till cool in a cloth. Make the pickle as for
mushrooms; when quite cold, put them in and cover them down. Should the
onions become mouldy, boil them again, carefully skimming off the
impurities; then let them cool, and proceed as at first.

Cauliflowers are excellent done in this way.


_Onions._ No. 4.

Put your small onions, after peeling them, into salt and water, shifting
them once a day for three or four days; set them over the fire in milk
and water till ready to boil; dry them; and, when boiled and cold, pour
over a pickle made of double-distilled vinegar, a bay-leaf or two, salt,
and mace.


_Onions._ No. 5.

Parboil small white onions, and let them cool. Make a pickle with half
vinegar, half wine, into which put some salt, a little ginger, some
mace, and sliced nutmeg. Boil all this up together, skimming it well.
Let it stand till quite cold; then put in your onions, covering them
down. Should they become mouldy, boil the liquor again, but skim it
well; let it stand till quite cold before the onions are again put in,
and they will keep all the year.


_Onions._ No. 6.

Take the small white round onions; peel off the brown skin. Have ready a
stewpan of boiling water; throw in as many onions as will cover the top.
As soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up quickly, lay
them on a clean cloth, and cover them close with another cloth.


_Spanish Onions, Mango of._

Having peeled your onions, cut out a small piece from the bottom, scoop
out a little of the inside, and put them into salt and water for three
or four days, changing the brine twice a day. Then drain and stuff them,
first putting in flour of mustard, then a little ginger cut small, mace,
shalot cut small, then more mustard, and filling up with scraped
horseradish. Put on the bottom piece, and tie it on close. Make a strong
pickle of white wine vinegar, ginger, mace, sliced horseradish, nutmeg,
and salt: put in your mangoes, and boil them up two or three times. Take
care not to boil them too much, otherwise they lose their firmness and
will not keep. Put them, with the pickle, into a jar. Boil the pickle
again next morning, and pour it over them.


_Orange and Lemon Peel._

Boil the peels of the fruit in vinegar and sugar, and lay them in the
pickle; but be careful to cut them in small long slices, about the
length of half the peel of your lemon. It must be boiled in water
previously to boiling in sugar and vinegar.


_Oysters._ No. 1.

Take a quantity of large oysters with their liquor; wash well all the
grit from them, and to every three pints of clear water put half an
ounce of bruised pepper, some salt, and a quarter of an ounce of mace.
Let these boil over a gentle fire, until a fourth part is consumed,
skimming it; just scald the oysters, and put them into the liquor; put
them into barrels or pots; stop them very close, and they will keep for
a year in a cool place.


_Oysters._ No. 2.

Parboil some large oysters in their own liquor; make pickle of their
liquor with vinegar, a pint of white wine, mace, salt and pepper; boil
and skim it, and when cold put in the oysters, and keep them.


_Oysters._ No. 3.

Take whole pepper and mace, of each a quarter of an ounce, and half a
pint of white wine vinegar. Set the oysters on the fire, in their own
liquor, with a little water, mace, pepper, and half a pound of salt;
skim them well as they heat, and only allow them just to boil for fear
of hardening them. Take them out to dry, skim the liquor, and then put
in the rest of the spice with the vinegar. Should the vinegar be very
strong, reduce it a little, and boil it up again for a short time. Let
both stand till cold: put your oysters into the pickle: in a day or two,
taste your pickle, and, should it not be sharp enough, add a little more
vinegar.


_Oysters._ No. 4.

Take the largest oysters you can get, and just plump them over the fire
in their own liquor; then strain it from them, and cover the oysters
close in a cloth. Take an equal quantity of white wine and vinegar, and
a little of the oyster liquor, with mace, white pepper, and lemon-peel,
pared very thin, also salt, the quantity of each according to your
judgment and taste, taking care that there be sufficient liquor to cover
them. Set it on the fire, and, when it boils, put in the oysters; just
give them one boil up; put the pickle in a pot, and the oysters closely
covered in a cloth till the pickle is quite cold.


_Oysters._ No. 5.

Simmer them, till done, in their own liquor; take them out one by one,
strain the liquor from them, and boil them with one third of vinegar.
Put the oysters in a jar, in layers, with a little mace, whole and white
pepper, between the layers; then pour over them the liquor hot.


_Oysters._ No. 6.

Take whole pepper and mace, of each a quarter of an ounce, and put to
them half a pint of white wine vinegar.


_Peaches, Mango of._

Take some of the largest peaches, when full grown and just ripening,
throw them into salt and water, and add a little bay-salt. Let them lie
two or three days, covering them with a board; take them out and dry
them, and with a sharp knife cut them open and take out the stone; then
cut some garlic very fine, scrape a great deal of horseradish, mix the
same quantity of mustard seed, a few bruised cloves, and ginger sliced
very thin, and with this fill the hollow of the peaches. Tie them round,
and lay them in a jar; throw in some broken cinnamon, cloves, mace, and
a small quantity of cochineal, and pour over as much vinegar as will
fill the jar. To every quart put a quarter of a pint of the best
mustard, well made, some cloves, mace, nutmeg, two or three heads of
garlic, and some sliced ginger. Mix the pickle well together; pour it
over the peaches, and tie them down close with either leather or a
bladder. They will soon be fit for use.

In the same manner you may do white plums.


_Purslain, Samphire, Broom Buds, &c._

Pick the dead leaves from the branches of purslain, and lay them in a
pan. Make some strong brine; boil and skim it clean, and, when boiled
and cold, put in the purslain, and cover it; it will keep all the year.
When wanted for use, boil it in fresh water, having the water boiling
before you put it in. When boiled and turned green, cool it, take it out
afterwards, put it into wide-mouth bottles, with strong white wine
vinegar to it, and close it for use.


_Quinces._

Cut in pieces half a dozen quinces; put them into an earthen pot, with a
gallon of water and two pounds of honey. Mix the whole together, and
boil it leisurely in a kettle for half an hour. Strain the liquor into
an earthen pot: and, when cold, wipe the quinces clean, and lay them in
it. Cover them very close, and they will keep all the year.


_Radish Pods._

Make a pickle with cold spring water and bay salt, strong enough to bear
an egg; put in your pods; lay a thin board on them to keep them under
water, and let them stand ten days. Drain them in a sieve, and lay them
on a cloth to dry; then take as much white wine vinegar as you think
will cover them, boil and put your pods in a jar, with ginger, mace,
cloves, and Jamaica pepper; put your vinegar boiling hot on them; cover
them with a coarse cloth three or four times double, that the steam may
come through a little, and let them stand two days; repeat this two or
three times. When cold, put in a pint of mustard-seed and some
horseradish, and cover them close.


_Salmon._ No. 1.

Cut off the head of the fish, take out the intestines, but do not slit
the belly; cut your pieces across, about two or three inches in breadth;
take the blood next to the back clean out: wash and scale it; then put
salt and water over the fire, and a handful of bay leaves; put in the
salmon, and, when it is boiled, take it off and skim it clear. Take out
the pieces with a skimmer as whole as you can; lay them on a table to
drain; strain a handful of salt slightly over them; when they are cold,
stick some cloves on each side of them. Then take a cask, well washed,
and seasoned with hot and cold water, three or four days before you use
it; put in the pickle you boiled your salmon in hot, some time before
you use it; then take broad mace, sliced nutmeg, white pepper, just
bruised, and a little black; mix the pepper with salt, sufficient to
season the salmon; strew some pepper, salt, and bay-leaves, at the
bottom of the cask; then put in a layer of salmon, then spice, salt,
bay-leaves, and pepper, as before, until the cask is full. Put on the
head, and bore a hole in the top of it; fill up the cask with good white
wine vinegar, cork it, and, in two or three days, take out the cork and
put more vinegar, and the fat will come out; do so three or four times;
then cut off the cork, and pitch it; if it be for present use, put it in
a jar, closely covered.


_Salmon._ No. 2.

Well scrape the salmon, take out the entrails, and well wash and dry it.
Cut it in pieces of such size as you think proper; take three parts of
common vinegar and one of water, enough to cover the fish. Put in a
handful of salt, and stir it till dissolved. Add some mace, whole
pepper, cloves, sliced nutmeg, and boil all these till the salmon is
sufficiently done. Take it out of the liquor, and let it cool. Put it
into a barrel, and over every layer of salmon strew black pepper, mace,
cloves, and pounded nutmeg; and, when the barrel is full, pour upon the
salmon the liquor in which it was boiled, mixed with vinegar, in which a
few bay-leaves have been boiled, and then left till cold. Close up the
barrel, and keep it for use.


_Salmon._ No. 3.

Cut your fish into small slices, and clean them well from the blood, by
wiping and pressing them in a dry cloth; afterwards lay it in a kettle
of boiling water, taking care not to break it, and, when nearly boiled,
make a pickle as follows: two quarts of water, three quarts of rape
vinegar; boil it with a little fennel and salt till it tastes strong;
then skim it; let it cool; lay the fish in a kettle, and pour the pickle
to it pretty warm.

The same process will do for sturgeon, excepting the fennel, and putting
a little more salt, or for any other fish.


_Salmon, to marinate._

Cut your salmon in round slices about two inches thick, and tie it with
matting, like sturgeon; season it with pepper, mace, and salt; then put
it into a broad earthen pan, with an equal quantity of port wine and
vinegar to cover it, and add three or four bay-leaves. The pickle also
must be seasoned with the spices above-mentioned. The pan must be
covered with a coarse cloth, and baked with household bread.


_Samphire._

Pick and lay it in strong brine, cold; let it remain twenty-four hours,
boil the brine once on a quick fire, and pour it immediately on the
samphire. After standing twenty-four hours, just boil it again on a
quick fire, and stand till cold. Lay it in a pot, let the pickle settle,
and cover the samphire with the clear portion of the pickle. Set it in a
dry place, and, should the pickle become mothery, boil it once a month,
and, when cold, put the samphire into it.


_Smelts._

Lay the smelts in a pot in rows, and lay upon them sliced lemon, mace,
ginger, nutmeg, pepper, powdered bay-leaves, and salt. Make pickle of
red wine vinegar, saltpetre, and bruised cochineal; when cold, pour it
on the smelts, and cover the pot close.


_Suckers, before the leaves are hard._

Pare off all the hard ends of the leaves and stalks of the suckers, and
scald them in salt and water, and, when cold, put them into glass
bottles, with three blades of mace, and thin sliced nutmeg; fill them
with distilled vinegar.


_Vinegar for Pickling._ No. 1.

Take the middling sort of beer, but indifferently hopped, let it work as
long as possible, and fine it down with isinglass; then draw it from the
sediment, and put ten pounds weight of the husks of grapes to every ten
gallons. Mash them together, and let them stand in the sun, or, if not
in summer, in a close room, heated by fire, and, in about three or four
weeks, it will become an excellent vinegar. Should you not have grape
husks, you may take the pressing of sour apples, but the vinegar will
not prove so good either in taste or body. Cyder will make a decent sort
of vinegar, and also unripe grapes, or plums, but foul white Rhenish
wines, set in a warm place, will fine, naturally, into good vinegar.


_Vinegar._ No. 2.

To a pound and a half of the brownest sugar put a gallon of warm water;
mix it well together; then spread a hot toast thick with yest, and let
it work very well about twenty-four hours. Skim off the toast and the
yest, and pour off the clear liquor, and set it out in the sun. The cask
must be full, and, if painted and hooped with iron hoops, it will endure
the weather better. Lay a tile over the bunghole.


_Vinegar._ No. 3.

To every gallon of water put three pounds of Malaga raisins; stop it up
close, and let it stand in the cellar two years.


_Camp Vinegar._

Infuse a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, four heads of garlic, some
shalots, half a drachm of cochineal, a quarter of a pint of ketchup,
soy, walnut pickle, and an ounce of black, white, and long pepper,
allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, all grossly bruised, a little mace, and
cloves, in a quart of the best wine vinegar; cork it close, and put a
leather and bladder over it. Let it stand before the fire for a month,
shaking it frequently. You must let it stand upon the ingredients, and
fill up with vinegar as you take any out. This is not only an excellent
sauce, but a powerful preservative against infectious disorders.


_Another._

Half an ounce of cayenne pepper, a large head of garlic, half a drachm
of cochineal, two spoonfuls of soy, the same of walnut pickle, and a
pint of vinegar.


_Chili Vinegar._

Gather the pods of capsicum when full ripe; put them into a jar with a
clove of garlic and a little cayenne pepper; boil the vinegar, and pour
it on hot; fill up your jar: let it stand for a fortnight; pour it off
clear, and it will be fit for use.


_Elder-flower Vinegar._ No. 1.

Put two gallons of strong alegar to a peck of the pips of elder-flowers,
set it in the sun in a stone jar for a fortnight, and then filter it
through a flannel bag; when you draw it off, put it into small bottles,
in which it will preserve its flavour better than in larger ones; when
you mix the flowers and the alegar together, be careful not to drop any
stalks amongst the pips.


_Elder-flower Vinegar._ No. 2.

Take good vinegar, fill a cask three quarters full, and gather some
elder-flowers, nearly or moderately blown, but in a dry day; pick off
the small flowers and sprigs from the greater stalks, and air them well
in the sun, that they may grow dry, but not so as to break or crumble.
To every four gallons of vinegar put a pound of them, sewing them up in
a fine rag.


_Elder-flower Vinegar._ No. 3.

Pick the flowers before they are too much blown from the stalks, and dry
them in the sun, but not when it is very hot. Put a handful of them to a
quart of the best white wine vinegar, and let it stand a fortnight.
Strain and draw it off, and put it into a cask, keeping out about a
quart. Make it very hot, and put it into your cask to produce
fermentation. Stop it very close, and draw it off when wanted.


_Elder-flower Vinegar._ No. 4.

Gather the elder-flowers in dry weather, pick them clean from the
stalks, and put two pints of them to a gallon of the best white wine
vinegar. Let them infuse for ten days, stirring them every day till the
last day or two; then strain off the vinegar, and bottle it.


_Garlic Vinegar._

Take sixty cloves, two nutmegs sliced, and eight cloves of garlic, to a
quart of vinegar.


_Gooseberry Vinegar._

To every gallon of water take six pounds of full ripe gooseberries;
bruise them, and put them into a vessel, pouring the water cold upon
them. Set the vessel in a hot place till the gooseberries come to the
top, which they will do in about a fortnight; then draw off the liquor,
and, when you have taken the gooseberries out of the vessel, measure the
liquor into it again, and to every gallon put a pound of coarse sugar.
It will work again, and, when it has done working, stop it down close,
set it near the fire or in the sun: it will be fit for use in about six
months. If the vessel is not full, it will be ready sooner.


_Plague, or Four Thieves' Vinegar._

Take rue, sage, mint, rosemary, wormwood, and lavender, of each a large
handful; put them into a stone jar, with a gallon of the best vinegar;
tie it down very close, and let it stand a fortnight in the sun, shaking
the jar every day. Bottle it, and to every bottle add a quarter of an
ounce of camphor, beaten very fine. The best time to make it is in June
or July.


_Raisin Vinegar._

Put four quarts of spring water to two pounds of Malaga raisins, lay a
stone or slate over the bung-hole, and set it in the sun till ready for
use. If you put it into a stone jar or bottle, and let it stand in the
chimney corner, for a proper time, it will answer the same purpose.


_Raspberry Vinegar._ No. 1.

Fill a very large jug or jar with raspberries; then pour as much white
wine vinegar upon them as it will hold; let it stand four days, stirring
it three times every day. Let it stand four days more, covered close up,
stirring it once a day. Strain it through a hair sieve, and afterwards
through a flannel bag; and to every pint of liquor add one pound of
loaf-sugar. Simmer it over the fire, skimming it all the time, till
quite clear. As soon as cold, bottle it.

This is very good sauce for a plain batter pudding and pancakes.


_Raspberry Vinegar._ No. 2.

Take two pounds of sugar; dissolve it in a pint of water; then clarify,
and let it boil till it is a thick syrup. Take the same quantity of
raspberries, or currants, but not too ripe, and pour over them a quarter
of a pint of vinegar, in which they must steep for twenty-four hours.
Pour the fruit and vinegar into the syrup, taking care not to bruise the
fruit; then give it one boil, strain it, and cork it up close in
bottles. The fruit must be carefully picked and cleaned, observing not
to use any that is in the least decayed. To the syrup of currants a few
raspberries may be added, to heighten the flavour. An earthen pipkin is
the best to boil in.


_Raspberry Vinegar._ No. 3.

Fill a jug with raspberries; add as much of the best vinegar as the jug
will hold; let the fruit steep ten or twelve days; then strain the
liquor through a fine sieve, without squeezing the raspberries; put
three pounds of lump sugar to a quart of juice, and skim it.


_Walnuts, black._ No. 1.

Take large full grown walnuts before they are hard; lay them in salt and
water for two days: then shift them into fresh water, and let them lie
two days longer; change them again, and let them lie two days longer;
take them out, and put them in your pickle pot; when the pot is half
full, put in some shalots, and a head of garlic. To a hundred of walnuts
add half an ounce of allspice, half an ounce of black pepper, six
bay-leaves, and a stick of horseradish. Then fill your pots, and pour
boiling vinegar over them; cover them with a plate, and when cold tie
them down.

Before you put the nuts into salt and water, prick them well with a pin.


_Walnuts._ No. 2.

About midsummer take your walnuts, run a knitting-needle through them,
and lay them in vinegar and salt, sufficiently strong to bear an egg.
Let them remain in this pickle for three weeks; then make some fresh
pickle; shift them into it, and let them lie three weeks longer; take
them out, and wipe them with a clean cloth; and tie up every nut in a
clean vine-leaf. Put them into fresh vinegar, seasoned with salt, mace,
mustard, garlic, and horseradish; and to a hundred nuts put one ounce of
ginger, one ounce of pepper, and of cloves and mace a quarter of an
ounce each, two small nutmegs, and half a pint of mustard seed. All the
pickles to be done in raw vinegar (that is, not boiled). It is always
recommended to have the largest double nuts, being the best to pickle.


_Walnuts._ No. 3.

Take the large French nuts, wipe them clean, and wrap each in a
vine-leaf; put them into a weak brine of salt and water for a fortnight,
changing it every day, and lay a slate upon them, to keep them always
under, or they will turn black. Drain them, and make a stronger brine,
that will bear an egg; let them lie in that a fortnight longer; then
drain and wipe them very dry, and wrap them in fresh vine-leaves; put
them in jars, and pour on them double-distilled vinegar, which must not
be boiled. To six or eight hundred nuts put two pounds of shalots, one
of garlic, and one of rocambole; a piece of assafotida, of the size
of a pea, tied up in a bit of muslin, and put into each jar, of white,
black, and long pepper, one pound each, half a pound of mace, a quarter
of a pound of nutmegs, two ounces of cinnamon, two ounces of cloves, two
pounds of allspice, one pound of ginger, two pounds of mustard-seed,
some bay-leaves, and horseradish. The mustard-seed and spice must be a
little bruised. Mix all these ingredients together, and put in a layer
of nuts and then a layer of this mixture; put the assafotida in the
middle; and as the pickle wastes take care to keep the jar filled up
with vinegar.


_Walnuts._ No. 4.

Take a hundred walnuts, at the beginning of July, before they are
shelled; just scald them, that the skin may rub off, then put them into
salt and water, for nine or ten days; shift them every day, and keep
them covered from the air: dry them; make your pickle of two quarts of
white wine vinegar, long pepper, black pepper, and ginger, of each half
an ounce; beat the spice; add a large spoonful of mustard-seed; strew
this between every layer of nuts. Pour liquor, boiling hot, upon them,
three or four times, or more, if required. Be sure to keep them tied
down close.


_Walnuts._ No. 5.

Put into a stone jar one hundred large double nuts. Take one ounce of
Jamaica and four ounces of black pepper, two of ginger, one of cloves,
and a pint of mustard-seed; bruise these, and boil them, with a head or
two of garlic and four handfuls of salt, in a sufficient quantity of
vinegar to cover the nuts. When cold, put it to them, and let them stand
two days. Then boil up the pickle, pour it over the nuts, and tie them
down close. Repeat this process for three days.


_Walnuts, green._

Wipe and wrap them one by one in a vine-leaf: boil crab verjuice, and
pour it boiling hot over the walnuts, tying them down close for fourteen
days; then take them out of the leaves and liquor, wrap them in fresh
leaves, and put them in your pots. Over every layer of walnuts, strew
pepper, mace, cloves, a little ginger, mustard seed, and garlic. Make
the pickle of the best white wine vinegar, boiling in the pickle the
same sort of spices, with the addition of horseradish, and pour it
boiling hot upon the walnuts. Tie them close down; they will be ready to
eat in a month, and will keep for three or four years.


_Walnut Ketchup._

To three pints of the best white wine vinegar put nine Seville oranges
peeled, and let them remain four months. Pound or bruise two hundred
walnuts, just before they are fit for pickling; squeeze out two quarts
of juice, and put it to the vinegar. Tie a quarter of a pound of mace,
the same of cloves, and a quarter of a pound of shalot, in a muslin rag
or bag; put this into the liquor; in about three weeks boil it gently
till reduced one half, and when quite cold bottle it.


_Another._

Cut in slices about one hundred of the largest walnuts for pickling; cut
through the middle a quarter of a pound of shalots, and beat them fine
in a mortar, adding a pint and a half of the best vinegar and half a
pound of salt. Let them remain a week in an earthen vessel, stirring
them every day. Press them through a flannel bag; add a quarter of a
pound of anchovies; boil up the liquor, scum it, and run it through a
flannel bag. Put into it two sliced nutmegs, whole pepper, and mace, and
bottle it when cold.




WINES, CORDIALS, LIQUEURS, &c.


_Ale, to drink in a week._

Tun it into a vessel which will hold eight gallons, and, when it has
done working and is ready to bottle, put in some ginger sliced, an
orange stuck full of cloves, and cut here and there with a knife, and a
pound and a half of sugar. With a stick stir it well together, and it
will work afresh. When it has done working, bottle it: cork the bottles
well; set them bottom upwards; and the ale will be fit to drink in a
week.


_Very rare Ale._

When your ale is tunned into a vessel that will hold eight or nine
gallons, and has done working, and is ready to be stopped up, take a
pound and a half of raisins of the best quality, stoned and cut into
pieces, and two large oranges. Pulp and pare them. Slice it thin; add
the rind of one lemon, a dozen cloves, and one ounce of coriander seeds
bruised: put all these in a bag, hang them in the vessel, and stop it up
close. Fill the bottles but a little above the neck, to leave room for
the liquor to play; and put into every one a large lump of fine sugar.
Stop the bottles close, and let the ale stand a month before you drink
it.


_Orange Ale._

Boil twenty gallons of spring water for a quarter of an hour; when cool,
put it into a tub over a bushel of malt, and let it stand one hour. Pour
it from the malt, put to it a handful of wheat bran, boil it very fast
for another hour; then strain and put it into a clean tub. When cold,
pour it off clear from the sediment; put yest to it, and let it work
like all other ales. When it has worked enough, put it into the cask.
Then take the rind and juice of twenty Seville oranges, but no seeds;
cut them thin and small, put them into a mortar, and beat them as fine
as possible, with two pounds of fine lump sugar; put them into a
ten-gallon cask, with ten gallons of ale. Keep filling up your cask
again with ale, till it has done working; then stop it up close. When it
has stood eight days, tap it for drink; if you bottle it, let it stand
till it is clear before you bottle it, otherwise the bottles may burst.


_Aqua Mirabilis, a very fine Cordial._

Three pints of sack, three pints of Madeira, one quart of spirit of
wine, one quart of juice of celandine leaves, of melilot flowers,
cardamom seeds, cubebs, galingale, nutmeg, cloves, mace, ginger, two
drachms of each; bruise them thoroughly in a mortar, and mix them with
the wine and spirits. Let it stand all night in the still, closely
stopped with rye paste; next morning make a slow fire in the still, and
while it is distilling keep a wet cloth about the neck of the still. Put
so much white sugar-candy as you think fit into the glass where it
drops.


_Bitters._

One drachm of cardamom seed, two scruples of saffron, three ounces of
green root, two scruples of cochineal, and four ounces of orange-peel.
Put these ingredients into a large bottle, and fill it with the very
best French brandy, so that they are well covered; after it has stood
for three days, take out the liquor, and put it into another large
bottle; fill up the first before, and let it stand four or five days;
then once more take out the liquor and fill up again, letting it stand
ten or twelve days. Then take it out again, put it all together, and it
will be fit for use.


_Another way._

Ginger and cardamom seed, of each three pennyworth, saffron,
orange-peel, and cochineal, of each two pennyworth, put into one gallon
of brandy.


_Cherry Brandy._

Four pounds of morella cherries, two quarts of brandy, and twelve
cloves, to be sweetened with syrup of ginger made in the following
manner: one ounce and a half of ginger boiled in a quart of water, till
reduced to half a pint; then dissolve in it one pound and a half of
sugar, and add it to the brandy. It will be fit for use by Christmas.

After the cordial is made, you can make a most delightful sweetmeat with
the cherries, by dipping them into syrup, and drying them in a cool
oven.


_Cordial Cherry Water._

Nine pounds of the best red cherries, nine pints of claret, eight ounces
of cinnamon, three ounces of nutmegs; bruise your spice, stone your
cherries, and steep them in the wine; then add to them half a handful of
rosemary, half a handful of balm, and one quarter of a handful of sweet
marjoram. Let them steep in an earthen pot twenty-four hours, and, as
you put them into the alembic to distil them, bruise them with your
hands; make a gentle fire under them, and distil by slow degrees. You
may mix the waters at your pleasure when you have drawn them all.
Sweeten it with loaf sugar; then strain it into another glass vessel,
and stop it close that the spirits may not escape.


_A very fine Cordial._

One ounce of syrup of gilliflowers, one dram of confection of alkermes,
one ounce and a half of borage water, the like of mint water, as much of
cinnamon water, well mixed together, bottled and corked. In nine days it
will be ready for drinking.


_Cup._

Take the juice of three lemons and the peel of one, cut very thin; add a
pint, or rather more, of water, and about half a pound of white sugar,
and stir the whole well; then add one bottle of sherry, two bottles of
cyder, and about a quarter of a nutmeg grated down. Let the cup be well
mixed up, and add a few heads of borage, or balm if you have no borage;
put in one wine glass of brandy, and then add about another quarter of a
nutmeg. Let it stand for about half an hour in ice before it is used.

If you take champagne instead of cyder, so much the better.


_Elder-flower Water._

To every gallon of water take four pounds of loaf sugar, boiled and
clarified with eggs, according to the quantity, and thrown hot upon the
elder-flowers, allowing a quart of flowers to each gallon. They must be
gathered when the weather is quite dry, and when they are so ripe as to
shake off without any of the green part. When nearly cold, add yest in
proportion to the quantity of liquor; strain it in two or three days
from the flowers, and put it into a cask, with two or three
table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice to every two gallons. Add, if you please,
a small quantity of brandy, and, in ten months, bottle it.


_Elderberry Syrup._

Pick the elderberries when full ripe; put them into a stone jar, and set
them in the oven, or in a kettle of boiling water, till the jar is hot
through. Take them out, and strain them through a coarse cloth, wringing
the berries. Put them into a clean kettle, with a pound of fine Lisbon
sugar to every quart of juice. Let it boil, and skim it well. When clear
and fine, put it into a jar. When cold, cover it down close, and, when
you make raisin wine, put to every gallon of wine half a pint of elder
syrup.


_Ginger Beer._ No. 1.

Boil six gallons of water and six pounds of loaf sugar for an hour, with
three ounces of ginger, bruised, and the juice and rind of two lemons.
When almost cold, put in a toast spread with yest; let it ferment three
days; then put it in a cask, with half a pint of brandy. When it has
stood ten days, bottle it off, and it will be fit to drink in a
fortnight, if warm weather.


_Ginger Beer._ No. 2.

Four ounces of ground ginger, two ounces of cream of tartar, three large
lemons, cut in slices and bruised, three pounds of loaf sugar. Pour over
them four gallons of boiling water; let it stand till it is milk warm;
then add two table-spoonfuls of yest on a toast; let it stand
twenty-four hours, strain it through a sieve, bottle it, and it will be
fit for use in three days: the corks must be tied or wired, or they will
fly.


_Ginger Beer._ No. 3.

To make ginger beer fit for drinking twenty-four hours after it is
bottled, take two ounces of ground ginger, two ounces of cream of
tartar, two lemons sliced, one pound and a half of lump sugar; put them
into a pan, and pour upon them two gallons of boiling water. When nearly
cold, strain it from the lees, add three table-spoonfuls of yest, and
let it stand twelve hours. Bottle it in stone bottles, well corked and
tied down.


_Ginger Beer._ No. 4.

Ten gallons of water, twelve pounds of loaf sugar, the whites of four
eggs, well beaten; mix them together when cold, and set them on the
fire: skim it as it boils. Add half a pound of bruised ginger, and boil
the whole together for twenty minutes. Into a pint of the boiling liquor
put an ounce of isinglass; when cold, add it to the rest, and put the
whole, with two spoonfuls of yest, into a cask: next day, bung it down
loosely. In ten days bottle it, and in a week it will be fit for use.


_Ginger Beer._ No. 5.

One gallon of cold water, one pound of lump sugar, two ounces of bruised
ginger, the rind of two large lemons; let these simmer ten minutes. Put
in an ounce of cream of tartar the moment it boils, and immediately
take it off the fire, stirring it well, and let it stand till cold.
Afterwards add the lemon-juice, straining out the pips and pulp, and put
it into bottles, tying down the corks fast with string. This will be fit
for use in three days.


_Imperial._ No. 1.

The juice of two large lemons, rather more than an equal quantity of
white wine, and an immoderate proportion of sugar, put into a deep round
dish. Boil some cream or good milk, and put it into a tea-pot; pour it
upon the wine, and the higher you hold the pot the better appearance
your imperial will have.


_Imperial._ No. 2.

Four or five quarts of boiling water poured to two ounces of cream of
tartar, and the rinds of two lemons cut very thin, with half a pound of
sugar. Well mix the whole together: and, when cold, add the juice of the
two lemons.


_Imperial._ No. 3.

Two ounces of cream of tartar, four ounces of sugar, six quarts of
boiling water, poured upon it, the juice and peel of a lemon; to be kept
close till cold.


_Lemonade._ No. 1.

To two quarts of water take one dozen lemons; pare four or six of them
very thin, add the juice to the water, and sweeten to your taste with
double-refined sugar. Boil a quart of milk and put into it; cover and
let it stand all night, and strain it through a jelly-bag till it runs
clear. Leave the lemon-pips to go into the bag with the other
ingredients.


_Lemonade._ No. 2.

The peel of five lemons and two Seville oranges pared very thin, so that
none of the white is left with it; put them in a basin, with eight
ounces of sugar and a quart of boiling water. Let it stand all night,
and in the morning squeeze the juice to the peels, and pick out the
seeds; then put to it a quarter of a pint of white wine; stir all well
together; add half a pint of boiling milk, and pour it on, holding it up
high. Let it stand half an hour without touching it; then run it through
a jelly-bag.


_Lemonade._ No. 3.

Three quarts of spring water, the juice of seven lemons peeled very
thin, the whites of four eggs well beaten, with as much loaf-sugar as
you please: boil all together about half an hour with half the
lemon-peel. Pour it through a jelly-bag till clear. The peel of one
Seville orange gives it an agreeable colour.


_Clarified Lemonade._

Pare the rind of three lemons as thin as you can; put them into a jug,
with the juice of six lemons, half a pound of sugar, half a pint of rich
white wine, and a quart of boiling water. Let it stand all night. In the
morning, add half a pint of boiling milk: then run it through a
jelly-bag till quite clear.


_Milk Lemonade._

Squeeze the juice of six lemons and two Seville oranges into a pan, and
pour over it a quart of boiling milk. Put into another pan the peel of
two lemons and one Seville orange, with a pound of sugar; add a pint of
boiling water; let it stand a sufficient time to dissolve the sugar;
then mix it with the milk, and strain it through a fine jelly-bag. It
should be made one day and strained off the next.


_Transparent Lemonade._

Take one pound and a half of pounded sugar of the finest quality, and
the juice of six lemons and six oranges, over which pour two quarts of
boiling water; let it stand twelve hours till cool. Pour on the liquor a
quart of boiling milk, and let it stand till it curdles; then run it
through a cotton jelly-bag till it is quite clear.


_Lemon Water._

Take twelve of the largest lemons; slice and put them into a quart of
white wine. Add of cinnamon and galingale, one quarter of an ounce each,
of red rose-leaves, borage and bugloss flowers, one handful each, and of
yellow sanders one dram. Steep all these together twelve hours; then
distil them gently in a glass still. Put into the glass vessel in which
it drops three ounces of fine white sugar and one grain of ambergris.


_Mead._ No. 1.

In six gallons of water dissolve fourteen pounds of honey; then add
three or four eggs, with the whites; set it upon the fire, and let it
boil half an hour. Put into it balm, sweet marjoram, and sweet briar, of
each ten sprigs, half an ounce of cinnamon, the same of mace, twenty
cloves, and half a race of ginger sliced very thin: let it boil a
quarter of an hour; then take it off the fire, pour it into a tub, and
let it remain till nearly cold. Take six ounces of syrup of citron, and
one spoonful of ale yest; beat them well together, put it into the
liquor, and let it stand till cold. Take a sufficient quantity of
coarse bread to cover the barrel, and bake it very hard; then take as
much ale yest as will spread it over thin, put it into the liquor, and
let it stand till it comes to a head. Strain it out; put the liquor into
a cask, and add to it a quart of the best Rhenish wine. When it has done
working, stop it up close, and let it stand a month; then draw it out
into bottles; tie the corks down close; and let them stand a month.


_Mead._ No. 2.

Ten quarts of honey boiled one hour with thirty quarts of water; when
cold, put it into a cask, and add to it one ounce of cinnamon, one of
cloves, two of ginger, and two large nutmegs, to be pounded first, and
suspended in a linen bag in the barrel from the bung-hole. The scum must
be filtered through a flannel bag.


_Mead._ No. 3.

Take eight gallons of spring water, twelve pounds of honey, four pounds
of powdered sugar; boil them for an hour, keeping it well skimmed. Let
it stand all night; the next day, put it into your vessel, keeping back
the sediment; hang in your vessel two or three lemon-peels; then stop it
up close; in the summer, bottle it in six weeks.


_Mithridate Brandy._

Take four gallons of brandy; infuse a bushel of poppies twenty-four
hours; then strain it, and put two ounces of nutmegs, the same of
liquorice, and of pepper and ginger, and one ounce each of cinnamon,
aniseed, juniper-berries, cloves, fennel-seed, and cardamom seed, two
drachms of saffron, two pounds of figs sliced, and one pound of the sun
raisins stoned. All these must be put into an earthen pot, and set in
the sun three weeks; then strain it, and mix with it two ounces of
Venice treacle, two ounces of mithridate, and four pounds of sugar. This
is an approved remedy for the gout in the stomach.


_Nonpareil._

Pare six lemons very thin, put the rinds and juice into two quarts of
brandy; let it remain well corked four days. Set on the fire three
quarts of spring water and two pounds of sugar, and clarify it with two
whites of eggs; let it boil a quarter of an hour; take the scum off, and
let it stand till cold. Put it to your brandy; add two quarts of white
wine, and strain it through a flannel bag; fill the cask, and it will
clarify itself. You may bottle it in a week. Orange-peel greatly
improves this liquor.


_Noyau._

To one gallon of the best white French brandy, or spirit diluted to the
strength of brandy, put two pounds and a half of bitter almonds
blanched, two pounds of white sugar-candy, half an ounce of mace, and
two large nutmegs. To give it a red colour, add four pounds of black
cherries. It must be well shaken every day for a fortnight; then let it
stand for six weeks, and bottle it off: it improves much by longer
keeping.


_Orange Juice._

One pound of fine sugar to a pint of juice; run it through a jelly-bag,
and boil it for a quarter of an hour; when cold, skim and bottle it.


_Spirit of Oranges or Lemons._

Take the thickest rinded oranges or lemons; pare off the rinds very
thin; put into a glass bottle as many of these chips as it will hold,
and then as much Malaga sack as it will hold besides. Stop the bottle
down close, and, when you use it, take about half a spoonful in a glass
of sack. It is a fine spirit to mix in sauces for puddings or other
sweet dishes.


_Cordial Orange Water._

Take one dozen and a half of the highest coloured and thick-rinded
oranges; slice them, and put them into two pints of Malaga sack, and one
pint of the best brandy. Take cinnamon, nutmegs, ginger, cloves, and
mace, of each one quarter of an ounce bruised, and of spearmint and balm
one handful of each; put them into an ordinary still all night, pasted
up with rye paste. The next day, draw them with a slow fire, and keep a
wet cloth upon the neck of the still; put the loaf sugar into the glass
in which it drops.


_Orgeat._

Two quarts of new milk, one ounce of sweet almonds and eighteen bitter,
a large piece of cinnamon, and fine sugar to your taste. Boil these a
quarter of an hour, and then strain. The almonds must be blanched, and
then pounded fine with orange-flower water.


_Another way._

Four ounces of sweet almonds finely pounded, two ounces of white
sugar-candy, dissolved in spring-water, and a quart of cream; mix all
together. Put it into a bottle, and give it a gentle shake when going to
be used.


_Excellent Punch._

Three pints of barley-water and a piece of lemon-peel; let it stand till
cold; then add the juice of six lemons and about half a pint of the best
brandy, and sweeten it to your taste, and put it in ice for four hours.
Put into it a little champagne or Madeira.


_Milk Punch._

To twenty quarts of the best rum or brandy put the peels of thirty
Seville oranges and thirty lemons, pared as thin as possible. Let them
steep twelve hours. Strain the spirit from the rinds, and put to it
thirty quarts of water, previously boiled and left to stand till cold.
Take fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar, and boil it in a proper
proportion of the water to a fine clear syrup. As soon as it boils up,
have ready beat to a froth the whites of six or eight eggs, and the
shells crumbled fine; mix them with the syrup; let them boil together,
and, when a cap of scum rises to the top, take off the pot, and skim it
perfectly clear. Then put it on again with some more of the beaten egg,
and skim it again as before. Do the same with the remainder of the egg
until it is quite free from dirt; let it stand to be cool. Strain it to
the juice of the oranges and lemons; put it into a cask with the spirit;
add a quart of new milk, made lukewarm; stir the whole well together,
and bung up the cask. Let it stand till very fine, which will be in
about a month or six weeks--but it is better to stand for six
months--then bottle it. The cask should hold fifteen gallons. This punch
will keep for many years.

Many persons think this punch made with brandy much finer than that with
rum. The best time for making it is in March, when the fruit is in the
highest perfection.


_Another way._

Take six quarts of good brandy, eight quarts of water, two pounds and a
half of lump sugar, eighteen lemons, and one large wine-glassful of
ratafia. Mix these well together; then throw in two quarts of boiling
skimmed milk; stir it well, and let it stand half an hour; strain it
through a very thick flannel bag till quite fine; then bottle it for
use. Before you use this punch, soak for a night the rinds of eighteen
lemons in some of the spirit; then take it out, and boil it in the milk,
together with two large nutmegs sliced.


_Norfolk Punch._

Take four gallons of the best rum; pare a dozen lemons and a dozen
oranges very thin; let the pulp of both steep in the rum twenty-four
hours. Put twelve pounds of double-refined sugar into six gallons of
water, with the whites of a dozen eggs beat to a froth; boil and scum it
well; when cold, put it into the vessel with the rum, together with six
quarts of orange-juice, and that of the dozen of lemons, and two quarts
of new milk. Shake the vessel so as to mix it; stop it up very close,
and let it stand two months before you bottle it.

This quantity makes twelve gallons of the Duke of Norfolk's punch. It is
best made in March, as the fruit is then in the greatest perfection.


_Roman Punch._

The juice of ten lemons, and of two sweet oranges, the peel of an orange
cut very thin, and two pounds of powdered loaf-sugar, mixed together.
Then take the white of ten eggs, beaten into froth. Pass the first
mixture through a sieve, and then mix it by degrees, always beating with
the froth of the eggs; put the whole into an ice-lead; let it freeze a
little; then add to it two bottles of champagne, or rum. Turn it round
with a ladle. The above is for twelve persons.


_Raspberry Liqueur._

Bruise some raspberries with the back of a spoon, strain them, and fill
a bottle with the juice; stop it, but not very close. Add to a pound of
fruit nearly a pound of sugar dissolved into a syrup. Let it stand four
or five days; pour it from the fruit into a basin; add to it as much
rich white wine as you think fit; bottle it, and in a month it will be
fit to drink.


_Raspberry Vinegar._

Fill a jar with raspberries, gathered dry, and pour over them as much of
the best white wine vinegar as will cover them. Let them remain for two
or three days, stirring them frequently, to break them; strain the
liquor through a sieve, and to every pint of it put a pound and a
quarter of double-refined sugar; boil it, and take off the scum as it
rises. When cool, bottle and cork it up for use. A spoonful of this
liquor is sufficient for a small tumbler of water.


_Ratafia Brandy._

Apricot or peach kernels, with four ounces of fine sugar to a quart of
brandy. If you cannot get apricot kernels, two ounces of bitter almonds,
bruised a little, to the same quantity of spirit, will make good
ratafia.


_Shrub._ No. 1.

To a gallon of rum put three pints of orange-juice and one pound of
sugar, dissolving the sugar in the juice. Then put all together in the
cask. It will be fine and fit for use in a few weeks. If the rum be very
strong, you may add another pint of juice and half a pound of sugar to
the above.


_Shrub._ No. 2.

Take two quarts of the juice of oranges and lemons, and dissolve in it
four pounds and a half of sugar. Steep one-fourth part of the oranges
and lemons in nine quarts of spirits for one night; after which mix the
whole together; strain it off into a jug, which must be shaken two or
three times a day for ten days; then let it stand to settle for a
fortnight; after which draw it off very carefully, without disturbing
the sediment.


_Shrub._ No. 3.

One gallon of rum, one pound and two ounces of double-refined sugar, one
quart of orange-juice, mixed and strained through a sieve.


_Currant Shrub._

Pick the currants from the stalks; bruise them in a marble mortar; run
the juice through a flannel bag. Then take two quarts of the clear
juice; dissolve in it one pound of double-refined sugar, and add one
gallon of rum. Filter it through a flannel bag till quite fine.


_Spruce Beer._

For one quarter cask of thirty gallons take ten or twelve ounces of
essence of spruce and two gallons of the best molasses; mix them well
together in five or six gallons of warm water, till it leaves a froth;
then pour it into the cask, and fill it up with more water. Add one pint
of good yest or porter grounds; shake the cask well, and set it by for
twenty-four hours to work. Stop it down close. Next day, draw it off
into bottles, which should be closely corked and set by in a cool cellar
for ten days, when it will be as fine spruce-beer as ever was drunk. The
grounds will serve instead of yest for a second brewing.

In a hot climate, cold water should be used instead of warm.


_Bittany Wine._

Take six gallons of water and twelve pounds of sugar; put your sugar and
water together. Let it boil two hours; then, after taking it off the
fire, put in half a peck of sage, a peck and a half of bittany, and a
small bunch of rosemary; cover, and let it remain till almost cold; then
put six spoonfuls of ale yest; stir it well together, and let it stand
two or three days, stirring two or three times each day. Then put it in
your cask, adding a quarter of a pint of lemon-juice; when it has done
working, bung it close, and, when fine, bottle it.


_Sham Champagne._

To every pound of ripe green gooseberries, when picked and bruised, put
one quart of water; let it stand three days, stirring it twice every
day. To every gallon of juice, when strained, put three pounds of the
finest loaf sugar; put it into a barrel, and, to every twenty quarts of
liquor add one quart of brandy and a little isinglass. Let it stand half
a year; then bottle it. The brandy and isinglass must be put in six
weeks before it is bottled.


_Cherry Wine._

Pound morella cherries with the kernels over-night, and set them in a
cool place. Squeeze them through canvas, and to each quart of juice put
one pound of powdered sugar, half an ounce of coarsely-pounded cinnamon,
and half a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Let it stand about a fortnight
in the sun, shaking it twice or three times every day.


_Another way._

Take twenty-four pounds of cherries, cleared from the stalks, and mash
them in an earthen pan; then put the pulp into a flannel bag, and let
them remain till the whole of the juice has drained from the pulp. Put a
pound of loaf sugar into the pan which receives the juice, and let it
remain until the sugar is dissolved. Bottle it, and, when it has done
working, you may put into each bottle a small lump of sugar.


_Cowslip Wine._ No. 1.

To twenty gallons of water, wine measure, put fifty pounds of lump
sugar; boil it, and skim it till it is very clear; then put it into a
tub to cool, and, when just warm, put to it two tea-spoonfuls of ale
yest. Let it work for a short time; then put in fifteen pecks of cut
cowslips, and the juice of twenty large lemons, likewise the outward
rinds pared off as thin as possible. Keep it in the tub two or three
days, stirring it twice each day. Then put it all together in a barrel,
cleansed and dried. Continue to stir twice a day for a week or more,
till it has done working; then stop it up close for three months, and
bottle it off for use.

The cowslips should be gathered in one day, and the wine made as soon as
possible after, as the fresh flowers make the wine of a finer colour
than when they are withered; but they will not hurt by being kept for a
few days if they are spread on a cloth, and moved every day.


_Cowslip Wine._ No. 2.

To a gallon of water put three pounds of lump sugar; boil them together
for an hour, skimming all the while. Pour it upon the cowslips, and,
when milk warm, put into it a toast, with yest spread pretty thick upon
it; let it stand all night, and then add two lemons and two Seville
oranges to each gallon. Stir it well in a tub twice a day for two or
three days; then turn it; stir it every day for a fortnight, and bung it
up close. It will be fit for bottling in six weeks. To every gallon of
water you must take a gallon of cowslips. They must be perfectly dry
before they are used, and there should be as many gallons of cowslips as
gallons of water; they should be measured as they are picked, and turned
into the cask. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass, and put to it when cold.
The lemons must be peeled.


_Cowslip Wine._ No. 3.

Take fourteen gallons of water and twenty-four pounds of sugar; boil the
water and sugar one hour; skim it till it is clear. Let it stand till
nearly cold; then pour it on three bushels of picked cowslips, and put
to it three or four spoonfuls of new yest; let it stand and work in your
vessel till the next day; then put in the juice of thirty lemons and the
peels of ten, pared thin. Stir them well together; bung up the vessel
close for a month; then bottle it.


_Currant Wine._ No. 1.

Gather the currants dry, without picking them from the stalks; break
them with your hands, and strain them. To every quart of juice put two
quarts of cold water, and four pounds of loaf sugar to the gallon. It
must stand three days, before it is put into the vessel. Stir it every
day, and skim it as long as any thing rises. To ten gallons of wine add
one gallon of brandy, and one of raspberries, when you put it in the
vessel. Let it stand a day or two before you stop it; give it air
fourteen days after; and let it stand six weeks before you tap it.


_Currant Wine._ No. 2.

To every gallon of ripe currants put a gallon of cold water. When well
broken with the hands, let it stand twenty-four hours. Then squeeze the
currants well out; measure your juice, and to every gallon put four
pounds of lump sugar. When the sugar is well melted, put the wine into a
cask, stirring it every day, till it has done hissing; then put into it
a quart of brandy to every five gallons of wine; close it well up;
bottle it in three months.


_Currant Wine._ No. 3.

Put into a tub a bushel of red currants and a peck of white; squeeze
them well, and let them drain through a sieve upon twenty-eight pounds
of powdered sugar. When quite dissolved, put into the barrel, and add
three pints of raspberries, and a little brandy.


_Currant or Elder Wine._

After pressing the fruit with the hand or otherwise, to every gallon of
juice add two gallons of water that has been boiled and stood to be
cold. To each gallon of this mixture put five pounds of Lisbon sugar. It
may be fermented by putting into it a small piece of toasted bread
rubbed over with good yest. When put into the cask, it should be left
open till the fermentation has nearly subsided.


_Black Currant Wine._

Ten pounds of fruit to a gallon of water; let it stand two or three
days. When pressed off, put to every gallon of liquor four pounds and a
half of sugar.


_Red Currant Wine._

Gather the fruit dry; pick the leaves from it, and to every twenty-five
pounds of currants put six quarts of water. Break the currants well,
before the water is put to them; then let them stand twenty-four hours,
and strain the liquor, to every quart of which put a pound of sugar and
as many raspberries as you please.


_Another way._

Take twenty-four pounds of currants; bruise them, and add to that
quantity three gallons of water. Let it stand two days, stirring it
twice a day; then strain the liquor from the fruit; and to every quart
of liquor put one pound of sugar. Let it stand three days, stirring it
twice a day; then put it in your barrel, and put into it six-pennyworth
of orris-root well bruised. The above quantities will make five gallons.


_Red or White Currant Wine._

Take to every gallon of juice one gallon of water, to every gallon of
water three pounds and a half of the best Lisbon sugar. Squeeze the
currants through a sieve; let the juice stand till the sugar is
dissolved; dip a bit of brown paper in brimstone, and burn in the cask.
Then tun the wine, and to every three gallons put a pint of brandy. When
it has done hissing, stop it close; it will be fit to drink in six
months, but it will be better for keeping ten or twelve.


_White Currant Wine._

To each sieve of currants take twenty-five pounds of moist sugar, and to
every gallon of juice two gallons of water. Squeeze the fruit well with
the hands into an earthen pan; then strain it through a sieve. Throw the
pulp into another pan, filling it with water, which must be taken from
the quantity of water allowed for the whole, and to every ten gallons of
wine put one bottle of brandy. In making the wine, dissolve the sugar in
the water above-mentioned, and put it into the cask; then add the
remaining juice and water, stirring it well up frequently. Stir it well
every morning for ten successive days, and as it works out fill up the
cask again until it has done fermenting. Then put in your brandy, and
bung it quite close. In about eight months it will be fit to drink; but,
if you leave it twelve, it will be better.


_Damson Wine._

Take four gallons of water, and put to every gallon four pounds of
Malaga raisins and half a peck of damsons. Put the whole into a vessel
without cover, having only a linen cloth laid over it. Let them steep
six days, stirring twice every day; then let them stand six days without
stirring. Draw the juice out of the vessel, and colour it with the
infused juice of damsons, sweetened with sugar till it is like claret
wine. Put it into a wine vessel for a fortnight; then bottle it up; and
it may be drunk in a month.

All made wines are the better for brandy, and will not keep without it.
The quantity must be regulated by the degree of strength you wish to
give to your wine.


_Elder Wine._ No. 1.

Take elderberries, when ripe; pick them clean from the stalk; press out
the juice through a hair sieve or canvas-bag, and to every gallon of
juice put three gallons of water on the husks from which the juice has
been pressed. Stir the husks well in the water, and press them over
again; then mix the first and second liquor together, and boil it for
about an hour, skimming it clean as long as the scum rises. To every
gallon of liquor put two pounds of sugar, and skim it again very clean;
then put to every gallon a blade of mace and as much lemon-peel, letting
it boil an hour. After the sugar is put in, strain it into a tub, and,
when quite cold, put it into a cask; bung it close down, and look
frequently to see that the bung is not forced up. Should your quantity
be twelve gallons or more, you need not bottle it off till about April,
but be sure to do so on a clear dry day, and to let your bottles be
perfectly dry; but if you have not more than five or six gallons, you
may bottle it by Christmas on a clear fine day.


_Elder Wine._ No. 2.

To a gallon of water put a quarter of a peck of berries, and three
pounds and a half of Lisbon sugar. Steep the berries in water forty
hours; after boiling a quarter of an hour, strain the liquor from the
fruit, and boil it with the sugar till the scum ceases to rise. Work it
in a tub like other wines, with a small quantity of yest. After some
weeks, add a few raisins, a small quantity of brandy, and some cloves.
The above makes a sweet mellow wine, but does not taste strong of the
elder.


_Elder Wine._ No. 3.

Take twenty-four pounds of raisins, of whatever sort you please; pick
them clean, chop them small, put them into a tub, and cover them with
three gallons of water that has been boiled and become cold. Let it
stand ten days, stirring it twice a day. Then strain the liquor through
a hair sieve, draining it all from the raisins, and put to it three
pints of the juice of elderberries and a pound of loaf-sugar. Put the
whole into the cask, and let it stand close stopped, but not in too cold
a cellar, for three or four months before you bottle it. The peg-hole
must not be stopped till it has done working.

The best way to draw the juice from the berries is to strip them into an
earthen pan, and set it in the oven all night.


_Elder Wine._ No. 4.

Mash eight gallons of picked elderberries to pieces, add as much spring
water as will make the whole nine gallons, and boil slowly for three
quarters of an hour. Squeeze them through a cloth sieve; add
twenty-eight pounds of moist sugar, and boil them together for half an
hour. Run the liquor through your cloth sieve again; let it stand till
lukewarm; put into it a toast with a little yest upon it, and let it
stand for seven or eight days, stirring it every day. Then put it into a
close tub, and let it remain without a bung till it has done hissing.
Before you bung up close, you may add one pint of brandy at pleasure.


_Elder Wine._ No. 5.

Half a gallon of ripe berries to a gallon of water; boil it half an
hour; strain it through a sieve. To every gallon of liquor put three
pounds of sugar; boil them together three quarters of an hour; when
cold, put some yest to it; work it a week, and put it in barrel. Let it
stand a year. To half a hogshead put one quart of brandy and three
pounds of raisins.


_Elder-flower Wine._

To six gallons of water put eighteen pounds of lump-sugar; boil it half
an hour, skimming it all the time. Put into a cask a quarter of a peck
of elder-flowers picked clean from the stalks, the juice and rinds of
six lemons pared very thin, and six pounds of raisins. When the water
and sugar is about milk warm, pour it into the cask upon these
ingredients; spread three or four spoonfuls of yest upon a piece of
bread well toasted, and put it into the cask; stir it up for three or
four days only; when it has done working, bung it up, and in six or
eight months it will be fit for bottling.


_Sham Frontiniac._

To three gallons of water put nine pounds of good loaf-sugar; boil it
half an hour; when milk-warm, add to it nearly a peck of elder-flowers
picked clear from the stalks, the juice and peel of three good-sized
lemons, cut very thin, three pounds of stoned raisins, and two or three
spoonfuls of yest; stir it often for four or five days. When it has
quite done working, bung it up, and it will be fit for bottling in five
days.


_Mixed Fruit Wine._

Take currants, gooseberries, raspberries, and a few rose-leaves, three
pints of fruit, mashed all together, to a quart of cold water. Let it
stand twenty-four hours; then drain it through a sieve. To every gallon
of juice put three pounds and a half of Lisbon sugar; let it ferment;
put it into a cask, but do not bung it up for some time. Put in some
brandy, and bottle it for use.


_Ginger Wine._ No. 1.

With four gallons of water boil twelve pounds of loaf-sugar till it
becomes clear. In a separate pan boil nine ounces of ginger, a little
bruised, in two quarts of water; pour the whole into an earthen vessel,
in which you must have two pounds of raisins shred fine, the juice and
rind of ten lemons. When of about the warmth of new milk, put in four
spoonfuls of fresh yest; let it ferment two days; then put it into a
cask, with all the ginger, lemon-peel, and raisins, and half an ounce of
isinglass dissolved in a little of the wine; in two or three days bung
it up close. In three months it will be fit to bottle. Put into each
bottle a little brandy, and some sugar also, if not sweet enough.


_Ginger Wine._ No. 2.

Twenty-six quarts of water, eighteen pounds of white Lisbon sugar, six
ounces of bruised ginger, the peel of six lemons pared very thin: boil
half an hour, and let it stand till no more than blood warm. Put it in
your cask, with the juice of six lemons, five spoonfuls of yest, and
three pounds of raisins. Stir it six or seven times with a stick through
the bung-hole, and put in half an ounce of isinglass and a pint of good
brandy. Close the bung, and in about six weeks it will be fit for
bottle. Let it stand about six months before you drink it. If you like,
it may be drawn from the cask, and it will be fit for use in that way in
about two months.


_Ginger Wine._ No. 3.

To ten gallons of water put eight pounds of loaf-sugar and three ounces
of bruised ginger; boil all together for one hour, taking the scum off
as it rises; then put it into a pan to cool. When it is cold, put it
into a cask, with the rind and juice of ten lemons, one bottle of good
brandy, and half a spoonful of yest. Bung it up for a fortnight: then
bottle it off, and in three weeks it will be fit to drink. The lemons
must be pared very thin, and no part of the white must, on any account,
be put in the cask.


_Ginger Wine._ No. 4.

To every gallon of water put one pound and a half of brown sugar and one
ounce of bruised ginger, and to each gallon the white of an egg well
beaten. Stir all together, and boil it half an hour; skim it well while
any thing rises, and, when milk-warm, stir in a little yest. When cold,
to every five gallons, put two sliced lemons. Bottle it in nine days;
and it will be fit to drink in a week.


_Gooseberry Wine._ No. 1.

To every pound of white amber gooseberries, when heads and tails are
picked off and well bruised in a mortar, add a quart of spring water,
which must be previously boiled. Let it stand till it is cold before it
is put to the fruit. Let them steep three days, stirring them twice a
day; strain and press them through a sieve into a barrel, and to every
gallon of liquor put three pounds of loaf-sugar, and to every five
gallons a bottle of brandy. Hang a small bag of isinglass in the barrel;
bung it close, and, in six months, if the sweetness is sufficiently gone
off, bottle it, and rosin the corks well over the top. The fruit must be
fall grown, but quite green.


_Gooseberry Wine._ No. 2.

To three quarts of full grown gooseberries well crushed put one gallon
of water well stirred together for a day or two. Then strain and squeeze
the pulp, and put the liquor immediately into the barrel, with three
pounds and a half of common loaf-sugar; stir it every day until the
fermentation ceases. Reserve two or three gallons of the liquor to fill
up the barrel, as it overflows through the fermentation. Put a bottle of
brandy into the cask, to season it, before the wine; this quantity will
be sufficient for nine or ten gallons. Be careful to let the
fermentation cease, before you bung down the barrel.

The plain white gooseberries, taken when not too ripe, but rather the
contrary, are the best for this purpose.


_Gooseberry Wine._ No. 3.

A pound of sugar to a pound of fruit: melt the sugar, and bruise the
gooseberries with an apple-beater, but do not beat them too small.
Strain them through a hair strainer, and put the juice into an earthen
pot; keep it covered four or five days till it is clear: then add half a
pint of the best brandy or more, according to the quantity of fruit, and
draw it out into another vessel, letting it run into a hair sieve. Stop
it close, and let it stand one fortnight longer; then draw it off into
quart bottles, and in a month it will be fit for drinking.


_Gooseberry Wine._ No. 4.

Proceed as directed for white currant wine, but use loaf-sugar. Large
pearl gooseberries, not quite ripe, make excellent champagne.


_Grape Wine._

Pick and squeeze the grapes; strain them, and to each gallon of juice
put two gallons of water. Put the pulp into the measured water; squeeze
it, and add three pounds and a half of loaf-sugar, or good West India,
to a gallon. Let it stand about six weeks; then add a quart of brandy
and two eggs not broken to every ten gallons. Bung it down close.


_Lemon Wine._

To every gallon of water put three pounds and a half of loaf-sugar; boil
it half an hour, and to every ten gallons, when cold, put a pint of
yest. Put it next day into a barrel, with the peels and juice of eight
lemons; you must pare them very thin, and run the juice through a
jelly-bag. Put the rinds into a net with a stone in it, or it will rise
to the top and spoil the wine. To every ten gallons add a pint of
brandy. Stop up the barrel, and in three months the wine, if fine, will
be fit for bottling. The brandy must be put in when the wine is made.


_Sham Madeira._

Take thirty pounds of coarse sugar to ten gallons of water; boil it half
an hour; skim it clean, and, when cool, put to every gallon one quart of
ale, out of the vat; let it work well in the tub a day or two. Then put
it in the barrel, with one pound of sugar-candy, six pounds of raisins,
one quart of brandy, and two ounces of isinglass. When it has done
fermenting, bung it down close, and let it stand one year.


_Orange Wine._ No. 1.

Take six gallons of water to twelve pounds of lump-sugar; put four
whites of eggs, well beaten, into the sugar and water cold; boil it
three quarters of an hour, skim while boiling, and when cold put to it
six spoonfuls of yest, and six ounces of syrup of citron, well beaten
together, and the juice and rinds of fifty Seville oranges, but none of
the white. Let all these stand two days and nights covered close; then
add two quarts of Rhenish wine; bung it up close. Twelve days afterwards
bottle and cork it well.


_Orange Wine._ No. 2.

To make ten gallons of wine, pare one hundred oranges very thin, and put
the peel into a tub. Put in a copper ten gallons of water, with
twenty-eight pounds of common brown sugar, and the whites of six eggs
well beaten; boil it for three quarters of an hour; just as it begins to
boil, skim it, and continue to do so all the time it is boiling; pour
the boiling liquor on the peel: cover it well to keep in the steam, and,
two hours afterwards, when blood warm, pour in the juice. Put in a toast
well spread with yest to make it work. Stir it well, and, in five or six
days, put it in your cask free from the peel; it will then work five or
six days longer. Then put in two quarts of brandy, and bung it close.
Let it remain twelve or eighteen months, and then bottle it. It will
keep many years.


_Orange Wine._ No. 3.

To a gallon of wine put three pounds of lump sugar; clarify this with
the white of an egg to every gallon. Boil it an hour, and when the scum
rises take it off; when almost cold, dip a toast into yest, put it into
the liquor, and let it stand all night. Then take out the toast, and put
in the juice of twelve oranges to every gallon, adding about half the
peel. Run it through a sieve into the cask, and let it stand for several
months.


_Sham Port Wine._

Cover four bushels of blackberries with boiling hot water, squeeze them,
and put them into a vessel to work. After working, draw or pour off the
liquor into a cask; add a gallon of brandy and a quart of port wine; let
it work again; then bung it up for six months, and bottle it.


_Raisin Wine._ No. 1.

Take one hundred weight of raisins, of the Smyrna sort, and put them
into a tub with fourteen gallons of spring water. Let them stand covered
for twenty-one days, stirring them twice every day. Strain the liquor
through a hair-bag from the raisins, which must be well pressed to get
out the juice; turn it into a vessel, and let it remain four months;
then bung it up close, and make a vent-hole, which must be frequently
opened, and left so for a day together. When it is of an agreeable
sweetness, rack it off into a fresh cask, and put to it one gallon of
British brandy, and, if you think it necessary, a little isinglass to
fine it. Let it then stand one month, and it will be fit to bottle; but
the longer it remains in the cask the better it will be.


_Raisin Wine._ No. 2.

Take four gallons of water, and boil it till reduced to three, four
pounds of raisins of the sun, and four lemons sliced very thin; take off
the peel of two of them; put the lemons and raisins into an earthen pot,
with a pound of loaf-sugar. Pour in your water very hot; cover it close
for a day and a night; strain it through a flannel bag; then bottle it,
and tie down the corks. Set it in a cold place, and it will be ready to
drink in a month.


_Raisin Wine._ No. 3.

To one hundred pound of raisins boil eighteen gallons of water, and let
it stand till cold, with two ounces of hops. Half chop your raisins;
then put your water to them, and stir it up together twice a day for a
fortnight. Run it through a hair-sieve; squeeze the raisins well with
your hands, and put the liquor into the barrel. Bung it up close; let it
stand till it is clear; then bottle it.


_Raisin Wine._ No. 4.

Take a brandy cask, and to every gallon of water put five pounds of
Smyrna raisins with the stalks on, and fill the cask, bunging it close
down. Put it in a cool dry cellar; let it stand six months; then tap it
with a strainer cock, and bottle it. Add half a pint of brandy to every
gallon of wine.


THE END.




USEFUL WORKS, FORMING VALUABLE PRESENTS, LATELY PUBLISHED.


A NEW SYSTEM of PRACTICAL ECONOMY; formed from Modern Discoveries and
the Private Communications of Persons of Experience. New Edition, much
improved and enlarged, with a series of Estimates of Household Expenses,
on Economical Principles, adapted to Families of every description. In
one thick volume, 12mo. price 6s. neatly bound. (The Estimates
separately, 1s. 6d.)

    The very rapid sale of this work manifests the high opinion
    entertained of its merits. It will afford important hints and much
    useful information to all who are desirous of properly regulating
    their establishments, and enjoying the greatest possible portion of
    the conveniences, comforts, and elegancies, of life that their
    respective incomes will admit of. There is scarcely a single subject
    connected with housekeeping, from the care of the Library down to
    the management of the beer cellar, which is not treated of in the
    present Volume.

THE FOOTMAN'S DIRECTORY, and BUTLER'S REMEMBRANCER. By THOMAS COSNETT.
Fifth Edition. 12mo. 4s. 6d.

     "This is really a most useful publication: of its kind, excellent.
     It embraces every thing that a servant ought to know, and leaves
     nothing untouched: every servant ought to possess it; and ladies
     and gentlemen will find it greatly to their advantage to place this
     work in the hands of their servants."--TIMES.

SIR ARTHUR CLARKE'S YOUNG MOTHER'S ASSISTANT; containing Practical
Instructions for the Prevention and Treatment of the Diseases of Infants
and Children. A new and improved Edition, 12mo. 4s. 6d.

     "In this little treatise, the author has endeavoured to communicate
     the results of considerable experience and observation with a view
     of producing a useful compendium for mothers, as far as possible
     divested of technical or scientific language."

CONVERSATIONS on the BIBLE. For the Use of Young Persons. By a LADY, New
Edition. 12mo. 6s. bound.

     "The little work before us will be found eminently serviceable, as
     it engages the curiosity and fixes the attention of youth on a
     topic of primal interest. We cordially recommend this excellent
     work to the attention of all those who are engaged in the
     instruction of the rising generation; indeed, to mature capacities,
     it will be found well worthy of perusal."--LITERARY CHRONICLE.

PRACTICAL WISDOM; or, the Manual of Life; the Counsels of Eminent Men to
their Children; comprising those of Sir Walter Raleigh, Lord Burleigh,
Sir Henry Sidney, the Earl of Strafford, Francis Osborne, Sir Matthew
Hale, the Earl of Bedford, William Penn, and Benjamin Franklin; with the
Lives of the Authors. New Edition. In small 8vo. with 9 Miniature
Portraits of the Writers, beautifully engraved on Steel, neatly bound,
5s.

     "We cannot too strongly recommend this volume, as one of the best
     that can possibly be selected, when a present that may prove really
     useful is wished to be given to any young friend."--STAR.

     "We have met with no book of the same size containing so much
     useful advice."--NEW TIMES.

LETTERS ON MATRIMONIAL HAPPINESS. Written by a Lady of Distinction to
her Relation shortly after her Marriage. Second Edition, 5s. 6d. neatly
bound.

FRUITS AND FLOWERS.

PHILLIPS'S COMPANION for the ORCHARD; an Historical and Botanical
Account of Fruits known in Great Britain, with Directions for their
Culture. By HENRY PHILLIPS, F. H. S. New Edition, enlarged with much
additional information, as well as Historical, Etymological, and
Botanical, Anecdotes, and comprising the most approved Methods of
Retarding and Ripening of Fruits, so as to ensure, in all seasons, the
enjoyment of those vegetable delicacies; new and curious Particulars of
the Pine Apple, &c. 8vo. 7s.

     "We know of no class of readers which is not much obliged to Mr.
     Phillips for this very useful and very entertaining publication.
     For extent of information, utility, and most of the other good
     qualities which can be desired in a production of its kind, it is
     really deserving the warmest eulogy."--LITERARY GAZETTE.

PHILLIPS'S COMPANION for the KITCHEN GARDEN; a History of Vegetables
cultivated in Great Britain; comprising their Botanical, Medicinal,
Edible, and Chemical Qualities, Natural History, and Relation to Art,
Science, and Commerce. By HENRY PHILLIPS, F. H. S., Author of "The
Companion for the Orchard." New Edition. In 2 vols, 8vo. 12s.

     "In this work, the object of the author has been to render the
     knowledge of Plants entertaining and useful, not only to Botanists,
     but to those who have hitherto deemed it a difficult and
     uninteresting science. He has endeavoured to ascertain of what
     countries the vegetables now cultivated are natives, the earliest
     accounts of their cultivation, and how far they have improved by
     attention, or degenerated by neglect; also the various uses made of
     them by the ancients, as well as the moderns, of different
     countries."--INTRODUCTION.

THE FLORIST'S MANUAL; or, Rules for the Construction of a Gay Flower
Garden, with Directions for preventing the Depredations of Insects. To
which are added--1. A. Catalogue of Plants, with their colours, as they
appear in each season.--2. Observations on the Treatment and Growth of
Bulbous Plants; curious Facts respecting their Management; Directions
for the Culture of the Guernsey Lily, &c. &c. By the Authoress of
"Botanical Dialogues," &c. New Edition, revised, and improved: small
8vo. with 6 coloured plates, 5s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY OF THE BRITISH NOBILITY.

     Now ready, the FOURTH EDITION, for 1832, in 2 vols. comprising the
     recently created Peers and Baronets, and illustrated with upwards
     of 1500 Engravings, among which is a fine Head of His Majesty,
     after Sir Thomas Lawrence's celebrated drawing,

BURKE'S GENERAL and HERALDIC DICTIONARY of the PEERAGE and BARONETAGE of
the BRITISH EMPIRE

    This New Edition of Mr. Burke's popular work, in addition to
    comprising, exclusively, the whole HEREDITARY RANK of England,
    Ireland, and Scotland, (exceeding FIFTEEN HUNDRED FAMILIES,) has
    been so extended, as to embrace almost every individual in the
    remotest degree allied to those eminent houses; so that its
    collateral information is now considerably more copious than that of
    any similar work hitherto published. The LINES OF DESCENT have
    likewise been greatly enlarged, and numerous historical and
    biographical anecdotes, together with several curious and rare
    papers, have been supplied. The Armorial Ensigns have been
    re-engraved, on the new and improved plan of incorporation with the
    letter-press, so that the existing state of each family, with its
    lineage and arms, will be found together.




Transcriber's Note


The following errors were corrected.

  Page  Error
  vii   ---- ragout changed to ----, ragout
    x   a la paysanne changed to à la paysanne
   18   Pistacio changed to Pistachio
   30   cheeses (plain) changed to cheeses (plain),
   47   large large leeks changed to large leeks
   57   half: cayenne changed to half; cayenne
   63   the blood changed to the blood.
   76   litle pepper changed to little pepper
   79   bread crum bs changed to bread crumbs
   83   fine white white, changed to fine white,
   85   the to pcrust changed to the top crust
   89   _Omelets_ changed to _Omelets._
   95   sprinkle a little flower changed to sprinkle a little flour
   97   Jamiaca pepper changed to Jamaica pepper
   99   add ketcheup changed to add ketchup
  103   carrots, &c; changed to carrots, &c.;
  120   ake it red changed to make it red
  132   common basonful changed to common basinful
  133   (common.) changed to (common).
  134   souce changed to souse
  135   chopped parlsey changed to chopped parsley
  140   Game), a changed to Game) a
  144   and squeze changed to and squeeze
  166   a fow land changed to a fowl and
  190   the crum changed to the crumb
  196   A spoonful o changed to A spoonful of
  196   piece of butter: changed to piece of butter;
  206   three table-spooonfuls changed to three table-spoonfuls
  216   ratifia flavour changed to ratafia flavour
  238   One pour of flour changed to One pound of flour
  248   become magotty changed to become maggoty
  342   strain it ever changed to strain it over
  357   four days: changed to four days;
  366   head of garlick changed to head of garlic
  389   _Raisin Wine._ No. 3 (first instance) changed to _Raisin Wine._
        No. 2

The following words were inconsitently spelled or hyphenated.

  a-la-mode / alamode
  bay-leaf / bay leaf
  bay-leaves / bay leaves
  beef-steaks / beef steaks
  beef-suet / beef suet
  beet-root / beet root
  bung-hole / bunghole
  black-pepper / black pepper
  bread-crumb / bread crumb
  bread-crumbs
  Calf's-head / Calf's head
  calf's-head / calf's head
  cocks'-combs / cocks-combs
  Cod's-Head / Cod's Head
  curry-powder / curry powder
  dessert-spoonful / dessert spoonful
  Elder-berry / Elderberry
  elder-flower / elder flower
  eschalot / shalot
  fire-side / fireside
  force-meat / forcemeat
  juniper-berries / juniper berries
  laurel-leaf / laurel leaf
  laurel-leaves / laurel leaves
  lemon-peel / lemon peel
  loaf-sugar / loaf sugar
  lump-sugar / lump sugar
  Macaroni / Maccaroni
  maccaroons / macaroons
  mackarel / mackerel
  mushroom-powder / mushroom powder
  mustard-seed / mustard seed
  olive-oil / olive oil
  orange-peel / orange peel
  Orange-water / Orange Water
  Pepper-pot / pepper pot
  plum-pudding / plum pudding
  Potage / Pottage
  puff-paste / puff paste
  rolling-pin / rollingpin
  rump-steaks / rump steaks
  sauce-boat / sauceboat
  saw-dust / sawdust
  scate / skate
  Slip-cote / Slipcote
  Souffle / Soufflé
  sweet-herbs / sweet herbs / sweetherbs
  table-spoonful / table spoonful
  tea-spoonfuls / teaspoonfuls
  wine-glass / wine glass
  wine-glasses / wine glasses
  wine-glassful / wine glassful





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lady's Own Cookery Book, and New
Dinner-Table Directory;, by Charlotte Campbell Bury

